I remember everything because I’ve obsessively thought about it.  She was my roommate's girlfriend.  We were alone in the house. There were vibes between us. We’d been flirting.  We sat on the edge of the bed for half an hour before anything happened. Smiling.  Giggling.  I kissed her, then we stopped.  She kissed me, then we stopped. Then she put the condom on me.  Afterward we cuddled. We joked. We discussed whether we should tell my roommate. And I thought that was it.  Then a few weeks later, a mutual friend showed me a text message where someone referred to me as a rapist.  When I confronted the girl about it, she claimed the sex hadn’t been consensual, and her willingness had just been a defense mechanism.  That’s when the bottom fell out of my life.  It felt like my reputation was ruined.  It seemed like everyone knew.  I got on antidepressants.  I went to therapy.  I felt hated, not lovable, not welcome in polite society.  Nothing I did seemed to matter anymore.  Certain pathways in my life seemed completely closed off. I could never be famous. Never a public figure. Never a CEO. The rumor would certainly come out. I had these constant, obsessive thoughts about what I’d do if it ever went public. Would I sue her?  Release every communication we’d ever had? Get statements from all my ex-girlfriends? Would I post a long note on Facebook where I admitted to every sin I’ve ever committed?  Maybe that would convince people that I’d never lie about this.  Would any of these things even matter?  Or would it just matter what she said?
I was a teller at a bank.  I was working the front and couldn’t talk on the phone, so she sent me a text.  She sent two texts actually.  The first one said ‘I’m pregnant.’  And the second one said: ‘It’s twins.’  We weren’t even living together at that point.  I was only making $28,000 a year.  I wasn’t ready.  They were born three months premature.  But if my wife was scared, she never showed it.  She went from nothing to Mom in no time.  She told me exactly what to do.  It was never domineering.  She just knew.  The first months were terrible.  We were sleeping two hours a night.  I was waking up for work at seven.  It felt like I was living in a dream state.  And I kept thinking: ‘I don’t think I can do this.’  And that feeling stayed for a long time.  Things are a bit easier now.  But it never feels like I’m done.  I go to work, then come home, then it’s homework, then it’s bed.  I’m dead tired at the end of the day.  I don’t know if I’m doing a good job.  I never felt like Dad.  I just felt like some figure they called ‘Dad.’  It somehow felt like my wife was their mom, and I was just there for support.  I felt like a babysitter.  Like I was watching someone else’s kids.  I never knew what a dad was supposed to be like.  It wasn’t in me.  I didn’t know how to show it.  I took care of them.  I loved them.  But I didn’t really hug or kiss them.  I wasn’t comfortable with it.  Probably because it was never done to me.  But I’m different now.  I hug and kiss them every night.  But that’s because they taught me.  They’d come up to me and say ‘Daddy, I love you.’  And they’d hug me and kiss me.  So that’s what I do now.  But it didn’t come from me.  Everything came from them.
I’m from a town with one traffic light.  It’s mostly antique shops.  There aren’t really any bars and all the restaurants close by eight.  So there’s not much opportunity socially or professionally.  I thought I’d have a house by now.  And a wife.  And kids.  But I’m still living in my parent’s basement.  Mostly it’s to save money and pay off loans, but it’s also comfortable.  My family is Italian.  We eat dinner together every Sunday.  My sisters bring their families over, and I get to see my nieces and nephews.  Everyone I love is there.  It’s really important to me.  A couple years back I had an opportunity to work in Chicago, but I turned it down.  I told them my family needs me, which is the perfect excuse. Because who’s going to question it?  But I don’t think it was the real reason.  I think I’m leaning on my family to avoid taking risks.  Every night when I come home, my dinner is waiting for me.  I don’t have to struggle.  I don’t have to progress and grow and get past problems.  I’m beginning to feel stagnant.  So I already told my boss: once an opportunity comes to move to the west coast, I’m taking it.
My mother ruled the house.  Everything had to be in its place and orderly.  There were plastic coverings on the sofa and armchairs.   She cleaned every day and I had to help her.  She was like a drill sergeant.  She told me when to wake up.  She told me when to go to sleep.  I don’t remember having interactions with her that weren’t her telling me what to do.  And if I resisted, she’d lash out physically.  She’d push me around.  She’d hit me in the face.  My only escape was reading.  After school I’d explore the stacks in the library, pick random books off the shelf, and choose anything that I found interesting.  I’d check out as many books as I could carry.  Back then you were allowed to keep them out for four weeks.  I’d read in my bedroom, in the bathroom, at the dinner table.  Books removed me from that toxic environment.  They exposed me to different worlds, different ways of thinking, different points of view.  I began to do really well in school.  I skipped grades.  On the citywide tests, I scored in the 99th percentile for vocabulary and reading comprehension.  My mother resented it all.  She’d call me an ‘educated moron.’  I went to City College at sixteen.  Graduated at nineteen.  Then after graduation, I used all my savings to travel to Paris for a month.  I explored the city.  I visited museums.  I met so many people from so many countries.  And by the time I came home, I had everything planned out: I found a job, found an apartment, and waited for my parents to visit their country home.  Then I packed up my things and left.
We’d get in these blowout fights whenever she asked me to stop drinking.  She’d try to tell me to slow down. Or that my behavior was ridiculous.  Or that she loved me and she wanted me to be healthy.  But it just seemed like she was trying to interfere with my life.  Your own selfishness becomes completely invisible when you’re that addicted.  And the more a person cares, the more they become an obstacle.  It’s horrible because you start hating them for loving you.  It would be so much easier to escape if nobody cared.  But somehow she stayed.  It’s hard to imagine why because she had every reason to go.  But this summer we’re getting married.  And I’ll be three years sober this April.
You can do things when you’re six that you can’t do when you’re three like my little sister is.  One thing is ice skate I guess, which I’ve done like maybe two times.  I fell down a lot and it felt kinda frustrating because it’s kinda frustrating when you keep falling but you have to keep your eyes open even if you’re scared.  On the fifth or seventh time around I didn’t even fall and I even did a fancy twirl jump but not in real life just in my imagination.
I’m not sure if you’ve heard about the accident at South By Southwest a few years back.  A car plowed into a crowd of pedestrians.  Four people died.  Twenty-five were injured.  I was the twenty-fifth.  I broke my back and neck in four places.  The driver was fleeing from the police in a stolen car.  He was twenty-one years old.  His name was Rashad.  A lot of people in my life thought he should get the death penalty.  But I never had strong feelings about it.  Maybe I disconnected from my emotions.  Maybe it’s just my personality.  But I mostly just felt sad that he’s so young and he’ll be in jail for the rest of his life.  Recently I looked up the address of his prison.  I purchased a PO Box.  And I wrote him three letters.  I’ve held onto them for months without sending them.  I guess I’m struggling with the fact that empathy is a privilege.  I’m still alive.  I’m still able to walk.  There are people who lost more than me who might be upset that I’m showing him any compassion at all.  But I find it curious that I know nothing about somebody who had such a profound impact on my life.  All three letters begin the exact same way: ‘We’ve never met, but we were in the same place at the same time.’  I’m not sure what I’m looking for.  I just figure there’s something to be said.  And I’d like to figure out what that is.
My dad came to America in the 90’s.  He worked at one of those stalls on 34th street selling ‘I Love New York’ t-shirts and plastic Statues of Liberty.  One of his coworkers had a sister back in Bangladesh, which was my mom. The whole thing was arranged over the phone.  Even the wedding was done over the phone. Everyone was on the line: my grandparents, my uncles, the Islamic priest.  My parents didn’t even meet in person until five months after the wedding.  I’m the oldest child in our extended family. Plus I’m the first one to grow up in America, so everyone is watching me. I’m like the lab rat for the American Dream. I was initially told that I was going to be a doctor. One of my earliest memories is sitting in my SpongeBob chair, practicing my numbers and letters.  In first grade my parents hired my kindergarten teacher to tutor me after school. My mother would actually negotiate with my teachers during parent-teacher conferences.  When I didn’t have a perfect grade in 5th grade science, she convinced my teacher to let me build a baking soda volcano for extra credit.  We didn’t have food coloring so we used Bengali spices for the lava.  Right now I’m in my first year of college. My parents have let go of the doctor thing. I think they trust me now because they’ve seen me accomplish a lot of things. But I still feel a lot of pressure.  A lot of people are watching me back in Bangladesh.  The sense of family is so big there.  If one person gets lifted up, everyone gets lifted up.  So everyone wants me to do well. And I want to do well for them.
My mom got really famous around my junior year.  Up until then she’d been the director of a nonprofit in our community.  She’d organize little protests here and there.  But her profile really exploded after the election.  I remember sitting on the stage while she gave an important speech.  I could see blocks and blocks of people, all looking at her with admiration.  I knew things were about to change.  I knew she was going to get busier.  Now she’s always traveling.  She’s always giving interviews.  Sometimes she’s on the phone from 9 AM to 9 PM.  We’re so proud of her.  She’s finally doing what she’s always wanted to do.  But she tries to hide the dark side from us.  She tells us not to go on social media and read the comments, or the smears, or the death threats.  She thinks she’s shielding us from it, and we play along.  We pretend to only see the good stuff so she doesn’t have to worry about us feeling safe.  Her public persona comes into the house a lot.  She used to be a calm person with fiery moments.  Now she’s a fiery person with calm moments.  When she gets upset, she’ll go straight into speech mode.  I think she’s afraid to ever let it go.  I think the persona protects her from her own mind.  Her own doubts.  Her own fears.  She thinks she always has to be strong.  I think if she could just sit down and say ‘I’m scared,’ it would tear things down.  She could be Mom instead of an activist.
We dated for two years.  He looked great on paper.  He was a composer.  He was tall and handsome.  He convinced me that we were soul mates.  And he was big into grand gestures.  One time he rented a convertible, handed me a foldout map of Canada, and said: ‘Pick anywhere you want to go.’  He did keep cheating on me, but he’d blame that on his bipolar disorder.  He’d tell me that his high sex drive was a medical condition.  And I believed him.  Because I was young, and stupid, and in love.  For my twenty-fifth birthday we were going to take a vacation to Seattle.  He’d just gotten back from a two-week trip to Israel.  He was really quiet on the train ride to the airport.  And just as we’re arriving, he tells me that he met someone in Israel.  I start crying.  He’s stone faced.  I’m thinking if we can just get on the flight, everything will be fine.  We go all the way through security and get to the gate.  At this point I’m musical theater girl sobbing.  Our flight begins boarding.  Everyone is staring at us.  Eventually we’re the last two left, and the gate agents are waiting for us to make a decision.  So I decide we should go home.  But he insists that I let him buy me a ticket to Chicago, so I can spend my birthday with my family.  So that’s what I did.  And the next day he calls me to wish me a happy birthday, from Nashville.  He’d flown out that same night.  To visit the girl he met in Israel.  That was the last I spoke to him.  But he did email me a few years ago to tell me that he’d written a musical about his life.  The airport scene was included.  And he wanted me to attend the show.
When my wife first told me that she was pregnant, I couldn’t sit down.  I wanted to rearrange the furniture or something.  There was this urgency.  Like I should be doing more.  My daughter is eleven months old now, and the feeling hasn’t gone away.  Everything seems so consequential.  I’ve been thinking about everything from her point of view.  The memories she’ll have in the future are going to be based on the decisions I make now.  I especially worry about space.  We live in a tiny apartment, and she’s got this little 5x5 piece of carpet that she plays on. Today she walked for the first time, using her little pushcart thing.  But she can only walk four feet before she hits a wall and has to turn around.  And I don’t ever want her to feel limited or boxed in.  But we looked at new apartments recently, and everything we can afford is so small.  So I need to focus.  I need to learn more.  I need to get a promotion.  Because I don’t ever want her to have an awareness of being poor.  Or any kind of worry at all.  I just want everything to feel natural, so she can prioritize her own life and her own feelings.
Eighteen is when I started fully dressing up and doing make-up.  I came out to my girlfriend when I was twenty-one.  I told her ‘I think I might be trans.’  And she said: ‘I know already.  Because you’ve always looked at me the way a woman looks at another woman.’  She began to address me as my female name.  She’d come with me to the make-up counter so I wouldn’t feel awkward.  But I’d still only dress up at home.  I felt ashamed.  In public I did everything I could to suppress that side of me.  I’d wear baggy jeans and plaid shirts at work.  I grew a long beard.  I’d laugh at homophobic jokes.  But inside I felt like an absolute depressed shit.  I started keeping a private Instagram account where I followed people in the trans community, and one day I saw a post from a girl in Queens.  She was looking to make some trans friends in real life.  When I messaged her, she invited me to a party in New Jersey where a bunch of cross dressers rent out a bar.  I didn’t even consider it.  I didn’t know these people.  And I’d never even gone outside of the house before.  But she video chatted with me as her guy self, and talked me into joining.  The night of the party I was scared as fuck.  I’d laid out all my clothes: ripped skinny jeans, Johnny Cash T-shirt, red and black wig.  I had my make-up picked out.  But I didn’t think I could do it. I felt like I was going to throw up.  But I managed to walk downstairs and get into her car.  She was pumping me up the whole way there.  I smoked one last cigarette in the parking lot, and followed her into the party.  The first thing I heard someone say was: ‘Oh God.  She brought a real woman with her this time.’  I was over the moon.
I grew up on a farm in Florida.  It was almost like we lived in a time capsule.  Nothing but ass whoopings and hard work: raking the yard, feeding chickens, tending horses, planting fields.  And my family was Jehovah’s Witnesses.  So we had to follow the Bible.   We had to do every single thing.  There was no room for metaphors or interpretation.  It was almost cultish.  I only had two guilty pleasures: playing in the woods, and horror movies.  Once a month my older sister would take me to the mall.  She’d pretend I was her daughter and sneak me into horror movies.  I was only nine or ten years old but we saw them all: Poltergeist, Halloween, Nightmare on Elm Street.  She’d cover my eyes when there was a sex scene, which pissed me off, but everything else I saw.  I just loved seeing out-of-control maniacs on the screen.  My entire life had always been so controlled.  I loved the feeling of being afraid: everything runs through you, spine tingling, fight or flight.  It made me feel alive."
Solitude is necessary to balance things out.  But isolation is different. It doesn’t feel like a choice.  I don’t want people to see me. There’s this shame for not having much of a life.  Everyone else has full lives and families and jobs.  So I keep to myself.  It’s like there’s a big hole inside of me.  And a lot of air.  Some days it can be hard to move.  Recently I became really malnourished. One morning I woke up with an intense headache, and ended up having a seizure on the floor of my apartment.  I spent the next three months at a hospital in Brooklyn.  They let me take my wheelchair anywhere.  I could explore new floors and meet new people.  If anyone needed water, or books from the library— I’d get it for them.  My social worker told me that everyone liked having me there.  It was the strongest sense of community I’ve ever had.  I’ve been depressed since I got home.  I want to go back.
When the kids were young I was living in the moment.  I was just trying to get them through the day: homework projects, sleepovers, keeping the food coming.  Taking this one to a band concert.  That one to a track meet.  There were plenty of worries, but they always seemed manageable.  I could usually intervene if one of the kids had a problem.  And I thought: ‘Once they’re out of high school, I’m done.  I’ll finally be able to relax.’ But all my children are adults now, and I’m worrying more than ever.  Because their problems didn’t stop. They just became adult problems.  And there’s not much I can do anymore.  One of my sons has depression.  I began to notice during our Sunday night phone calls,  his voice was flat, the answers were short. Then I asked the right questions and it all came out.  He said:  ‘I’m depressed. And I don’t know why. And I don’t know how to fix it.’  One night he just wept on the phone, quiet weeping, which is the worst. Because there’s nothing to address. Just lots of dead space, and: ‘Are you still there?’  There wasn’t much I could say to cheer him up.  Mothers tend to lose their credibility after a lifetime of praise.  So I’m just left to worry if it will ever resolve.  I worry if he’ll ever be happy.  I urged him to see a professional, but there’s not much else I can do but pray.  I’m not sure if prayer helps, but I get on my knees and do it anyway.
I grew up in Colombia.  There wasn’t much to watch on television back then because we only had a few channels.  Everything was black-and-white.  But every night there was a famous music show.  All the big bands came on that show: the Beatles, the Rolling Stones, Led Zeppelin.  Always my nose would be stuck to the TV.  I went completely crazy.  My parents could not understand.  Sometimes I’d get so excited that I’d cry.  I grew my hair long.  I told myself: ‘One day I will be in a band.  I do not know how.  But I will do it.’  A few years later my father got the opportunity to manage a dairy farm in Spain.  From there I was able to get a visa to London.  I was nineteen years old, and London was almost too much for me.  It was so exciting.  All the time I was crying.  I worked as a dishwasher and started going to all the nightclubs.  I fell in love with punk music: Sid Vicious, Billy Idol, The Clash.  They made me dance like a crazy.  So many times I cried.  But I especially wanted to be on the stage.  So I found two guys and started a band.  We were called The Ridiculous.  For two months we played on the street outside the club.  But it was harder than I thought.  We never were invited inside.  Our drummer found another band.  Then the guitarist found another band.  And then it was just me.  That was forty years ago, but I’m still keeping the punk alive.  One day I will try again.
We’d been friends for three years.  We’d mostly see each other at the Catholic Center on campus: picnics, group outings, stuff like that.  But then we started hanging out alone.  And one day during finals week we spent an entire day together.  We talked for six hours straight, and that night we ended up eating burgers at Five Guys.  Remember it was finals week, so I was stressed out and sleep deprived and not thinking clearly.  I started telling him that he’s so great, and that I’ve never felt so comfortable with someone, and suddenly I realize that I’m practically telling him that I like him.  And he’s got this blank expression on his face.  Total poker face.  So I panicked, and said something silly.    She told me, word-for-word: ‘But don’t worry.  I could never date you.’  My heart sank.  I’d been planning on asking her out after finals.  I had a whole plan.  Suddenly it felt like I’d misread the last three years, and especially the last few months.  I tried to keep a straight face.  No crying.  And after we paid for the check, I dropped her off at the dorm and walked the entire two miles home.  I kept telling myself: ‘You can recover.  She’s still a dear friend.  Life has its ups and downs.’  Two weeks later I helped her move into a new apartment.  And we kept hanging out as friends for the next few months.  But then on Valentine’s Day, she sent me a neuroscience card.  It’s a bit of a tradition because we’re both neuroscience majors.  The card said: ‘Are you a neuron? Because you have action potential.’  Then she followed up with a text that said: ‘If a man really wants to impress me, he’d bring me pancakes and yellow roses.’  Suddenly things were looking up again.
Right now I just feel confused.  It’s fear, really.  I’m scared.  I’m graduating in a year.  I still don’t know what I want to do.  I’ve always wanted to be a leader in something.  But I don’t know what that is exactly, and I feel like if I’m not doing it already, then I’ll probably never be a leader in it.  So it’s a lot of stress.  The one thing that’s giving me solace is the thought of being a mom.  I’ve wanted to be a mother since the age of four.  I used to put blankets under my shirt to pretend like I was pregnant.  I love taking care of people.  And if I can’t conceive, I’ll adopt.  I’ve got everything figured out.  I didn’t think about it much in high school or middle school.  But now that the future is in such close proximity, motherhood has become my security blanket.  I think about it whenever I’m feeling overwhelmed.  Since everything seems to matter so much right now, it’s my way of saying: ‘nothing really matters.’  Because at least I’ll have a family.
I owned a frame shop in Atlanta for thirty years.  But every time I went to a theater and sat in the audience, I got the feeling that God had come and left without me.  I just knew that I was meant to perform.  Then one day a woman walked up to me in a health food store, and asked:  ‘Do you always talk like that or do you have a cold?’  I said: ‘Excuse me?’  And she told me that she wanted to cast me in a BMW commercial.  I thought it was a freebie.  But on the way out of the studio, they asked for my social security number.  $750 for three minutes on the mic!  I thought: ‘I need more of this.’  I started taking acting classes.  I got cast in a few local plays.  I moved to New York on my 50th birthday.  I wasn’t about to sit around in my later years wondering if my soul had gotten what it needs.  I drew unemployment for the first time in my life.  But by 2003 I was a member of SAG.  By 2005 I had a speaking part on Law and Order SVU.  And at the age of 62 I was given a full scholarship to the American Academy of Dramatic Arts.  Things have dried up a bit since then.  I had to take care of my mother for six years.  And it’s hard for women of a certain age to get cast.  But it ain’t over yet.  Things happen when they’re supposed to happen.  And I’m a firm believer that nobody can get what is yours to have.  And I will tell you this: I’ve already envisioned what I’m wearing the first time I get invited to the Oscars.  Red mermaid dress, fitted from the waist to the knees, and flaring out at the bottom.  A stand-up collar that frames the back of my head.  Stunning neckline.  And a king’s ransom of rubies on loan from Harry Winston.
We had dorm rooms next to each other freshman year.  We mainly just played a lot of board games: Risk, Scrabble, Scattergories, a Trivial Pursuit game from the 1980’s, which everyone sucked at.  But we became best friends, and the next year decided to get a house together.  That’s when things started to get tense.  We began sitting closer together.  We were touching more.  We’d play with each other’s hands.  Never holding hands, but playing with hands.  And we’d even fall asleep in the same bed together.  There was a time that she told me goodnight, and I swear I felt her brush my lips, but by the time I opened my eyes she was out of the room.  Neither of us had ever dated a woman.  And I was terrified to try anything.  We were such good friends.  There was always this fear that if I voiced the desire, it would ruin our friendship.  But one night we were out for drinks at a hotel where Al Capone used to stay.  I was feeling pretty drunk, so I leaned over and said: ‘Sometimes I feel like I want to kiss you.’  And she replied: ‘Sometimes I do too.’  I didn’t say a thing.  I wasn’t even sure that I’d heard her correctly.  I just kept thinking: ‘Oh my God, it’s happening.  It’s happening.’  Then once we finished our drinks, and started walking home, I stopped her in front of a bridge.  I said: ‘Shall we do it here?’  It was December 12th, 2002.  And even though we got married five years ago, that’s the day we celebrate as our anniversary.
Today in microfashion
Today in microfashion
We worked in the same IT department.  I think our colleagues knew earlier than we did.  Whenever we’d go out, they kept trying to sit us next to each other.  She always seemed really interested in me.  She’d ask me a lot of questions.  But I felt really nervous because I’d never had a girlfriend before, and I didn’t want to mess it up.  So I kept things professional for about eight or nine months.  But then one night a group of us went to the club.  We were all having fun until a tall, blonde guy asked her to dance.  I had to think quickly.  I knew it was time to make a move.  Somehow I needed to separate them, but I didn’t want to escalate the situation.  This was a very tall man.  So I thought: ‘It’s time to dance.  You need to dance now.’  I wasn’t quite ready because I hadn’t had enough to drink.  But thankfully I’d just learned some dance moves from the movie Hitch.  Slowly I wedged myself between them.  I backed in,  butt first, using my special moves.  I didn’t even make eye contact with the guy.  Thankfully he gave up.  We danced together for about an hour.  At some point the rest of our colleagues went to the bar and left us all alone.  That’s when she leaned in and kissed me on the cheek.
Most teachers say I have messy handwriting but I’m just trying to write quickly so I can get it over with.  The assignments don’t make sense.  I’m not sure why our teacher is always saying ‘write about this’ or ‘write about that.’  If I decide to be an author, I’m not going to write about other people’s books or the play we just saw on a field trip.  I’m going to write about monsters.
I was going to Arizona State when my dad passed away.  I didn’t handle it well.  Sort of fell apart.  I had just paid $9,000 for the fucking semester.  I opened my laptop, dropped the semester, opened up a new tab, bought a one-way ticket to New York, and threw myself a going-away party.  Once I got here, I started working in retail.  But on the side I was writing about Fashion Week for a blog called Style Cartel, shout out to Charlotte, Muslim like me.  And every time I went to these events, I’d introduce myself as a stylist.  I kept saying: ‘I style athletes and celebrities.’  I didn’t give a fuck.  Then suddenly I started getting clients for real: actors, NFL players, you name it.  Now I’m up to 42 clients.  Down to two days a week in retail.  Pure hustle.  No Miami mommy money.  Well I’m not going to lie.  I did have a sugar daddy first year,  billionaire, you’ve heard of him.  But never fucked him.  Anyway, the one thing I’ve always wanted to do is go back to school.  Cause I promised my dad.  Then one night I was watching Billions and there’s this psychologist who always keeps the men in check.  So I peeped the psychology degree at Hunter College, walked into the admissions office, and told the lady: ‘My transcripts are trash.  My dad died of cancer.  But I’m intelligent.  I need a second chance.’  The deadline had already passed, but she ended up doing me a solid.  She performed some sort of alchemy on my transcripts and came out with a 2.6 GPA.  That was enough to get me in the door.  I just finished up my second semester.  Now I’ve got a 3.5 GPA.  Plus the teachers love me cause I’m entertaining in class.
It was simple.  So easy to get.  I just typed my information into a website, and was immediately approved.  I thought: ‘Here I go, I’m doing it, this is going to be great.’  The loans seemed like an investment.  According to the law school brochure, which turned out to be lies, I’d be making six figures when I graduated.  I thought the payments would be manageable.  Just another bill.  Like the phone bill.  I first knew I was in trouble after I got my first job, and well over half my income went toward payments.  I kept falling behind, calling some agency, and working out patches and fixes.  That dynamic lasted for years.  It was incredibly stressful.  Things have slowly gotten better, but then again, the debts have gotten larger as well.  My husband has them too.  They keep us where we are.  We’d like to move.  We’d like to own a house.  We’d like to do things.  But we just can’t.  We’re not sure if we want to have children.  But I feel like the debt keeps us from having clarity.  We need to be in a secure place to make that choice.  But I also know that if I don’t decide, nature will make the choice for me.  It’s not all bad.  My husband is an adorable teddy bear.  I made great friends in law school.  I adopted an amazing dog.  And I do enjoy my job.  I just wish I could go back and tell myself: ‘Girl, that’s a lot more than you think it is.’
When the relationship failed, it felt like I had failed.  Being a good girlfriend had been so important to me, and I couldn’t succeed at the one thing I put all my energy into.  Admittedly I was a very codependent partner, which is something I’m working on. Even after we broke up, I still hung out with him all the time. He saw it as a casual thing, but I was still looking for the validation of being wanted. I felt so lost.  All of my life plans had been contingent on the relationship.  Finally I moved back to New York, which is where I grew up. At the time it seemed like giving up. I moved in with my parents. My confidence was low.  I didn’t think I’d be able to find a job.  I went through all the motions but I felt like I was faking it. There was a voice in my head telling me that I didn’t deserve any of the jobs I was applying for. But after months of searching, I just got hired last Friday.  I’m going to be a trauma therapist at a victims’ services agency. It’s exactly what I wanted to be doing with my degree. It feels like the start of something. And that’s exactly what I needed.  Before coming home, everything felt haunted and attached to him.  But up here, everything is completely mine: my job, my schedule, my surroundings.  Even coming to Grand Central is something I used to do as a kid, and I’m doing it now, and I’ll continue to do it.  It’s connected to my history.  And it’s a part of me.  And it has nothing to do with him.
We were moving downstate.  My wife and daughters went ahead and I stayed behind to pack up the house.  The accident happened on Mother’s Day, so I was already feeling guilty that I wasn’t with them.  Their car stopped at a drawbridge and they were rear-ended by a distracted driver.  Knocked them forty yards onto the bridge.  They’re lucky they didn’t end up in the water.  I thought it was just a fender bender.  My daughters were fine, and my wife sent me a selfie to show that she was OK.  But then the swelling came.  And the next day she was completely black and blue.  It was a traumatic brain injury.  She’s better now, but she still gets very tired.  Sometimes it can hurt for her to carry on long conversations.  She’s been unable to work.  The insurance companies have been fighting us.  So it’s been a tough couple years.  But recently I started a cider business with my friend Steve.  It was a huge risk.  I’d never done anything like it, and there was always so much to do: picking apples, labeling, bottling, capping.  Some of the apples we grew ourselves, but we’d also find these abandoned orchards with wild, craggy, arthritic trees.  We’d literally pick tons of apples, take them to this turn-of-the-century cider mill, and watch them get pressed into juice.  Then we’d bottle the cider once spring came around, and I’d drive into the city to sell at markets.  We’ve sold hundreds of cases.  The response has been unbelievable.  It’s the most fun I’ve ever had.  It’s exhilarating.  But then I think about my wife, and I get the blues again.  It’s like my mind is at war.  I get sad because I’m away from home so often.  There’s a lot of driving involved.  But my wife says she understands.  She says that it’s good for me.
I was in my fourth year of owning my own interior design business.  Things were beginning to click.  I was finally hitting that sweet spot where after so many years of putting myself out there, business was starting to come to me.  I don’t one hundred percent remember the wreck.  I just remember driving to work, being hit from the side, and ending up in oncoming traffic.  I still haven’t fully recovered.  I had headaches for months.  I was sensitive to light and noise.  I got tired easily.  Some days I couldn’t even get out of bed.  And my business began to suffer.  I was forced to turn down offers, and each time I did, it felt like the opportunity would never come again.  Everything I’d worked for seemed to be slipping away.  I got mad at myself for not recovering faster.  I tried to push through the pain.  One morning I decided I was going to write an article, and take my daughter to play dates, and be home in time to cook dinner.  By the end of the day my head was going crazy.  My body was no longer willing to keep up with my drive.  I’ve always been a ‘yes’ person: student council, president of clubs, always one more thing.  But that isn’t working for me right now.  I’ve had to learn that the pain isn’t a weakness.  It’s a real injury.  And it needs time.  My current mantra is ‘do what you can.’  My only goal is to become a healthy mother, wife, and friend.  Today I’m meeting a friend from New Jersey.  And we’re just going to chill.
I was the only black girl in my sorority.  I don’t even know why I rushed.  I think I was inspired by ‘Saved By The Bell: The College Years.’  I pictured sleepovers, and nail painting, and close friends that you could share secrets with.  I imagined that once you became a sister, these things would just materialize.  But it doesn’t really work like that.  My pledge name was Eeyore.  I didn’t talk much.  I didn’t smile.  I always assumed people were thinking negative things, about my weight, or my clothes, or my hair.  I joined the sorority to feel like part of a community, but I mainly just felt black.  One time my sisters tried to set me up with the one black guy at another fraternity.  And once I was wearing a French maid’s costume, and somebody asked if I was Aunt Jemima.  I couldn’t seem to make any close friends.  Nobody really included me in things, or opened up to me.  And I always attributed it to my race.  It’s what I always assumed.  But now I’m not so sure.  Maybe I could have been more social.  Maybe I could have made more of an effort.  People don’t automatically want to spend time with you, and I wasn’t the friendliest person.  So it’s hard to tell: what was race, and what was me.
My parents used to live on a farm in a rural area of Costa Rica, but there were no schools nearby.  So they moved us to the city.  They could only afford a small house made of wood.  I was the youngest of eight children, and we split three bedrooms between us.  All of us couldn’t even fit at the kitchen table, so we had to eat breakfast in shifts.  We shared everything: school supplies, books, bicycles.  One Christmas we got a single pair of roller-skates for eight kids.  Adolescence was the most difficult.  My mother would sew our clothes from the same piece of cloth.  And I started to want a little privacy, but instead we’re sharing perfume, and shampoo, and deodorant.  But all the sharing brought us closer.  Everyone helped each other.  We had no choice.  When the oldest kids began to work, they paid for the younger ones’ studies.  All of us eventually went to college and became professionals.  When my mother passed away, she asked me to keep everyone together.  We have a WhatsApp group where we chat everyday, even if just to say good morning and good night.  Or to discuss ways to help my Dad.  Here’s a picture of everyone at his 90th birthday.  He still lives in the same house we grew up in, but we added a second story.  There are four more rooms now.  But whenever we get together, we still have to take turns at the kitchen table.
My whole life was denial until the divorce.  I always had a script that I followed, probably handed down from my mother.  Always be cheerful.  Always have a smile or a joke.  Insist that everything is great, or will be better soon.  Be likable, which is different than lovable.  And parties, parties, parties, I was always the hostess.  Because the hostess never has to expose herself.  Always bringing other people together: ‘Let’s sit Margaret next to Susan because they both went through this or that.’ Never mind what I might have been through.  Or who I am.  Not that I’d know who I am.  Because that takes time.  And the hostess is too busy keeping things bubbly and effervescent.  When the party’s over, there’s only time to sleep.  And I don’t remember my dreams.  Now if you’ll excuse me, I have a dinner for eight this evening.
I’ve been dancing ever since I was a little girl.  But college seemed like the natural order of things, so I went to Michigan State and got my bachelor’s degree in education.  After that I taught for five years in Detroit public schools. I enjoyed teaching. But I always knew that I wanted to be dancing full time.  On the weekends I’d perform in off-Broadway shows and little showcases. I was also dancing for the Detroit Lions.  But they didn’t even let us dance on the field.  We had our own little section in the stands.  I had friends who’d skipped college and focused entirely on dancing.  Some of them got jobs with major artists, and I started seeing them on TV.  I wanted that life.  But I knew it would require leaving Detroit.  And I just wasn’t ready. But then came the Beyoncé Formation World Tour. June 14th, 2016. Ford Field. I was sitting just above ground level, stage right.  And there was this moment during the song ‘Freedom,’ where all the dancers were dancing in water, and it was so beautiful.  I just remember sitting down in my seat, and thinking: ‘I can do this.’ The following Monday I told my boss that I’d be moving to New York.  I’ve been here for almost a year now. I’m tutoring and teaching to pay the rent. I was hoping to have a manager or agent by now, but it’s so competitive.  I’ve been to auditions with 400 people competing for five slots.  And everyone is so talented that the distinctions become so small: your body type, what you wear, how you wear your hair.  Things can seem out of your control.  But I’ve had some success. I danced at the Ladies of Hip Hop Festival.  I’ve gotten to final callbacks for Lion King, Mean Girls, Cats, and Motown the Musical.  So I know I have the talent. I know that I’m close. It’s like a carrot dangling in front of me. This year my goal is to have one significant performance.  And my ultimate goal is to dance on a world tour.  With any major artist, especially Beyoncé.
It happened at 8 pm, Monday, May 12th, 2014.  I was driving home with my boyfriend. I noticed a car coming into our lane so I swerved into three trees.  I almost died and completely destroyed a vertebra. I slept in a hospital bed for three months. I had to learn to walk again.  Even today my back requires a lot of maintenance.  It’s like an engine without oil. It grinds. It flares up. I actually just finished getting X-rays because it’s been a bad week.  But I take a lot of pride in how independent I’ve become despite the disability. Much more so than before the injury. I finally left Long Island and moved to the city. I’ve taken my health into my own hands, which is huge for me.  I have doctor appointments every day this week, but in a good way. I’m being proactive about my health. I can’t do high impact exercises, but I’m weightlifting a lot. And I’m traveling. Next month I’m going to Sri Lanka and India.  The sixteen-hour plane ride is going to be brutal, but it’s important for me. I don’t want to have any barriers. A couple years ago I went on a five day trek in Patagonia.  It was completely off the grid.  Just me, my sister, and my map.  My mother was terrified. It was my first major travel since the accident. And there’s no satellite reception, so if you hurt yourself, you’re done. But I was determined. I didn’t want my sister to leave me behind.  So I exercised every day for six weeks. I bought some hiking sticks and supportive shoes.  I carried 60 lbs of supplies on my back. Each day we hiked eight miles. I brought five pieces of chocolate, one for each day we finished. At night I’d rest my back. The last day was the hardest. We covered sixteen miles and climbed the highest summit. I kept trying to talk myself out of it. I was stopping every 50 feet.  I told my sister to keep going, but she stayed with me. And we finally got to the top. It wasn’t very cinematic. There was so much fog you couldn’t see a thing. But it was a huge deal for me. And I got to eat my last piece of chocolate.
She was ‘The Grandma.’  She worked as the head nurse at St. James hospital.  She owned her own house.   I lived with her up until the sixth grade.  We’d have these long conversations every night.  And every morning she’d make a ball of coconut for me to bring to school.  She was the most consistent thing in my life.  Even after Mom got mixed up in drugs, Grandma paid to keep our phone on.  She paid to keep our lights on.  She checked my grades and sent me to after-school programs.  She even bought me my first computer.  It was made especially for me, big tower, lots of lights.  It kept me off the street for months.  Grandma was the only person who ever took me out of the state.  We went to theme parks.  We went to water parks.  Once she even took me to the Bahamas for four days.  Most of my friends had never even left the block.  I did get mixed up in the streets for a while.  Grandma was upset when I dropped out of high school, but she still did her best to keep me level.  She helped me get my GED.  She talked to me about nursing.  She supported me when I joined the military.  I never thought I’d be where I am today.  I’m working construction.  I recently joined the union.  Everything is because of her.  She's the only woman who's name I have tattooed on my body.
We’ve broken up four or five times already.  But lately things have been great, we’ve been talking on the phone every night.  And she’s the one who suggested I come visit her.  So I’m thinking, great, we’ll spend a few days together, hang out, maybe have a little physical connection.  I bought a ticket on the Greyhound.  The ride was eight hours.  I did get some sleep, I will say that.  And after I arrived, she allowed me to come over for like thirty minutes.  Her Jamaican stepfather wasn’t allowing more than that.  But I’m thinking: ‘No problem.  It’s just the first night.’  We agree to see a movie the next evening.  I show up at her house right on time, and out she comes with her sister!  What’s going on here?  I’m not dating her sister.  And I’ve got to pay for three tickets now?  Luckily I was smart and loaded up on Dunkin Donuts before the movie.  But her sister is ordering popcorn, soda, nachos.  And this is a Regal Cinema, so that’s a full $20 order. I played it cool.  Acted like it wasn’t a big deal.  And when the movie ended, we made plans to spend Saturday together.  But then she says: ‘As long as it doesn’t snow.’  And of course it snows.  Half an inch.  Didn’t even stick.  But she refused to come outside.  Didn’t want to ‘get sick.’  So I just went out drinking and passed out on the floor of my friend’s apartment.  My bus was supposed to leave this morning, but they cancelled it because of weather.  So I just sent her a text.  She’s off work today.  Maybe she'll hang out with me.
My life is not significantly different, but it feels like everyone else has changed around me. All my friends are progressing down that heteronormative life stage thing.  They’ve gotten married.  Or gotten a house.  Or had kids.  Whereas I’m more in this extended adolescence thing.  It’s really changed my social life.  I used to be able to rally a group of friends on an hour’s notice.  But now it’s like herding cats.  You really have to work to get on someone’s calendar.  Last month I had dinner with good friends of mine, they’re a married couple.  Great people.  We wanted to squeeze in a date before their twins were born.  My job was to keep their child entertained while they cooked dinner.  He’s like two.  Wonderful kid.  Very nice kid.  Only says a few words, but nice personality.  Likes to hug the cat.  Really cares about the cat.  He’s also really big into picking things up and dropping them on the floor.  He showed me his box of pencils, even gave one to me, which I thought was really nice.  Things were going great.  But then came the ‘tired’ thing.  During dinner there was a sudden change.  He started rubbing his eyes.  Lots of throwing.  Rice and vegetables began to fly across the table.  Then came the screaming.  Nobody signaled this was abnormal, so I attempted to plow forward with the conversation.  I’d find short breaks in the screaming to slip in a few words.  But it got louder and louder.  The parents were professionals.  Completely unfazed.  And I didn’t care.  I was leaving in an hour anyway.
Driving makes me anxious.  I’ve avoided it all my life.  Errands only.  And I certainly have never left Suffolk County.  It was never a problem until my son decided to have a fucking kid.  Ellie Rose is her name.  Absolute delight.  But she lives three hours away.  So me, Chucky Bologna, pronounced like the city, not the lunchmeat, at the age of sixty-five, has to drive on the Cross Bronx Expressway if I want to see my granddaughter.  It’s a nightmare.  I get nervous even thinking about it.  The first time I made the trip was right after the birth.  I studied the route beforehand.  Memorized all my exits.  I refuse to use GPS because I can’t handle the lady talking to me while I’m trying to drive.  My husband packed the car.  We put my dog Lyle in the front seat for emotional support.  But that backfired because he sensed my anxiety and started licking my hands.  My girlfriend Annette told me: ‘Chucky, you’ll be fine.  Just own the center lane.  Find the center and stay there.’  So that’s what I did.  That minivan was not changing lanes for any fucking reason.  Three straight hours.  Didn’t even stop to pee.  I lost eight pounds of water weight from all the sweating.  But I made it.  When I got there, I felt so victorious.  Empowered.  Like I could drive anywhere.  But I haven’t, of course.  Way too scary.
I was at an anthropology field school in Guatemala.  I was twenty-two.  And I was having a crisis.  I had no idea what I wanted to do after college.  I remember sitting at a café with my favorite professor, and he told me: ‘If you were my daughter, I’d tell you to go into law.  From there you can work on anything: healthcare, policy, human rights.’   So when I returned home, I began to study for the LSAT.  I spent four years getting my Master’s in International Law, with a concentration in human rights and environmental justice.  Then last year I moved to New York to pursue a job in my chosen field.  But that’s not exactly what happened.  I’ve arranged meetings with twenty-five different attorneys to ‘better understand the field.’  And I’m always hoping to say the right words to catch their attention.  It’s poor form to say: ‘I need a job.’   But at the end of every meeting, I always ask: ‘Do you know any opportunities that I should be pursuing?’  And the answer is always ‘no.’  I do have a job right now, and I work hard at it, but it’s mainly reviewing records and writing letters.  It’s not the path I wanted to be on.  And the longer you work in another field, the harder it can be to transition.  I’ve always wanted to make an impact.  Ruth Bader Ginsburg is my idol.  And I worked hard on this.  I studied my ass off, I was valedictorian, I got into a great school, and got great scholarship money.  I’ve had a job since I was sixteen.  I focused on two or three friends.  I didn’t date.  This was supposed to be my thing.  And now it’s not working out.  I’ll never be in my twenties again.  Or living in New York. But I’m having a hard time enjoying it because I’m so focused on this one path that’s not opening up.
My father was a different person when he came home from Vietnam.  He drank a lot.  He was never around.  So everything I learned about being a man, I learned from my grandfather, Daniel O’Connell Renehan.  He also grew up without parents.  When he was two years old, his mother died while cooking soup.  The cauldron fell on her.  So my grandfather spent his childhood in an orphanage.  He never went to school, but he educated himself.  He was a voracious reader.  Eventually he became the treasurer of a bank on Park Avenue.  He was in his late fifties when I was born.  But he treated me like his son.  We’d watch Notre Dame Football together.  We’d go on long walks.  We’d sit on an old covered swing for hours and he’d tell me stories about Irish kings.  I wouldn’t be here if it wasn’t for him.  My mother did her best, but she was always at work, and there were too many wrong roads to take.  So I’ve lived my life by his example.  Being a father has always been the most important thing to me.  I’ve got four kids of my own now.  All of them turned out great, and one of them is named Daniel.
I had three bottles of wine on election night.  I got in bed after Pennsylvania, and stayed there for a week.  I’d only get up to use the bathroom and get more wine.  I’d have left the country by now if it wasn’t for my elderly mother.  I’ve weaned myself off Xanax, but I haven’t recovered.  I still watch MSNBC all the time.  I’ll spend entire days on the couch.  I’ll wake up with Morning Joe and go to sleep with Brian Williams.  I’ll get on Twitter during the commercials and search for any hint that somebody’s going to be indicted.  I know way too much.  I know the name of every congressman.  I know their district.  I know what percentage of the vote they got.  Before 2016, I hadn’t purchased a book in twenty years.  Now I buy all the political ones.  The scarier the better.   I even got the Omarosa book.  Nobody else wanted to read it so I thought I’d take one for the team.  I went to DC for four different protests.  And a few weeks ago I drove down to Mexico to see for myself what was happening on the border.  I’m obsessed.  It’s not healthy.  Recently I was able to cut myself off from politics for about a week.  But then here comes Brett Kavanaugh and I’m back on the couch for three days.
We’d been married for four years.  We had two young daughters.  Everything seemed normal.  He never stayed out late.  He was a police officer, but he was always home on weekends.  And we had a robust sex life.  He was my best friend.  Sometimes we’d stay up all night talking, no TV, just talking.  Then one morning I tried printing something out on our office computer, and it just kept printing out the same page.  It was a picture of his naked body, combined with the profile page for a gay website.  He said it was nothing.  Only porn.  Then a few months later I found the same picture in the ‘unsent messages’ folder of our Outlook account.  He’d been trying to send it to a transgender woman named Gabby.  That’s when I went through his Internet history and found thousands of jpegs of transgender porn.  He denied being gay.  He said it was nothing but a porn addiction.  But then a few weeks later I was reviewing our credit card statement, and saw that he’d gotten tested for HIV.  The next day he brought me to church.  He sat me down with the pastor.  And he confessed that he’d been having sex with transgender prostitutes throughout our marriage.  We didn’t immediately divorce.  I tried to make it work for our daughters.  He tried going to a treatment center at Johns Hopkins.  But I felt like I was married to a stranger.  It drove me to the edge.  On Super Bowl Sunday of that year, I was sitting in my bed, crying, heavily medicated, when I heard him on the phone downstairs.  He was laughing like he didn’t have a care in the world.  That night I checked his phone, and saw that he’d been talking to Gabby.  He’d been texting her every day for months.  The last one said: ‘My wife is getting suspicious.’  That’s when I kicked him out of the house.  I haven’t spoken to him in years.  He does call my daughters a couple times per week.  I just tell them that things between Mommy and Daddy didn’t work out.  He seems to be doing fine.  He has a new family now.  And he’s a minister.
My dad brought me here at the age of seven. My mom stayed back in Jamaica, so it was just me and him. He was very strict. It was cultural, mostly. He’d served in the military back home.  So he controlled all areas of my life, school, sports, socializing. Nothing was ever enough for him: not the first place medals, not the honor roll, nothing.  He tried hard to break me down. He’d wake me up at 3 AM to go running. He’d make me kneel on the floor all night. And he’d never let me speak back. He intimidated me into silence. I left the house when I turned eighteen. I got a job as a pharmacy tech.  I got my own apartment, but I still lived nearby. One day I was driving to work, and I saw him walking to the bus stop.  So I pulled over and picked him up. The ride was only ten minutes. But there was a different energy. He actually talked to me. And he let me talk back. He told me things about his life. He talked about how stressed he felt.  Things got better after that day. I’d occasionally drop by the house. I introduced him to my girlfriend. He’d tell jokes and laugh. We were beginning to form a relationship. On the morning he died, I actually drove past the crime scene without realizing it.  My phone was turned off because it’s not allowed at work. When I finally turned it on, I had several missed calls from him. Each time he left a voicemail: ‘Alex, pick up,’ ‘Alex, please come get me,’ ‘Alex, I need a ride.’ The only time he didn’t leave a voicemail was the very last call. He’d been shot in the neck while walking to the bus stop. I always wonder if the last call was while he was bleeding out. The next few months were surreal. I felt like I was sleepwalking. And I felt responsible. He’d called me for a ride and I’d been right around the corner. I ended up quitting my job.  I went to a recruiter’s office. And I punished myself the same way he’d have done it: I joined the Marines.
Last I heard he was arrested for buying large amounts of cocaine.  My mom let me know.  She called me one day and said: ‘I don’t want you to find out by Googling your name.’  It wasn’t a huge surprise, actually.  It explained a lot of his behavior.  He promised to pay for our school, then didn’t.  He never wanted to pay child support.  He started calling less and less.  I haven’t heard from him in years.  But I have a really, really great stepdad.  I just call him Andrew.  My first memory of him was when I was ten years old.  I just thought he was a nice older guy at the New Year's Eve party.  But my mom got hammered, and the whole ride home, she kept saying: ‘Isn’t he so great?  Isn’t he so cute?’  Two years later he moved in with us.  He never tried to discipline me.  He’d leave that to my mom.  He always had the attitude of: ‘I’m not your father.’  But he was another adult in the house that I could rely on.  And I’d never had that before.  He’d cook meals for us.  And he’d really work hard on them.  And he’d drive me places.  I think 95% of my needs at the time were cooking and driving.  Even today, I could call him if I need a ride anywhere.  If he’s not able to do it himself, he’ll pay for a cab.  Or he’ll figure out another solution.  It’s the kind of attention that makes you feel like you’re deserving of someone else’s time.  He’s far from perfect.  He works too much.  He snores.  He doesn’t do his laundry.  But when I think of the qualities of a good man, or dad, or just person, Andrew’s got them.
I started selling when I was seventeen.  I didn’t even have to look for customers.  A bunch of my friends were squatting in an empty building near my house.  And they all smoked.  Plus they had people coming over all the time.  Everyone came to me.  It was the first real money I ever had.  I didn’t even know where to start spending.  I could buy real things: game consoles, clothes, all the stuff I’d never had before.  I got some $400 Jordan 9’s and only wore them twice.  The police don’t even care about it anymore.  An unmarked car stopped me while I was skating home last night.  They were searching for somebody who got in a fight.  When the detectives asked if I had weed on me, I told them ‘yes.’  And they weren’t even worried about it.  They let me go.  But I want to stop dealing soon.  I’m almost twenty-five.  I’ve got ten grand hidden under my bed.  But that doesn’t even seem like much money to me anymore.  I could make more, but I don’t want to start growing it.  I don’t want weight in my house.  And I don’t want to sell to people that aren’t my friends.  So there’s nowhere to go.  And I’ve wasted a lot of time.  The money made me complacent.  I’ve been dealing for six years, and I’ve got nothing on my resume.  All I did was work at Macy’s for two months during the holiday season.
I began using coke in high school, and I never really stopped.  But it was under control.  I’d use it maybe once a month.  I was successful.  I worked as a commercial real estate broker.  But at the age of 42 I started drinking again.  At first I was just entertaining clients, but I began to flood into bad habits.  I was attracted to the underbelly of the city.  One night a prostitute in Brooklyn offered me a hit of crack, and I accepted.  Immediately I began to use against my will.  That year a $250,000 bonus was dumped into my bank account.  I did manage to pay the bills for the house, but all the rest went to smoking.  I became a horrible employee.  My family thought I was going to work every day, but I spent all my time bouncing between hotels and crack houses in Brooklyn.  My teenage son would leave me voicemail after voicemail, begging me to come home.  It was an ugly, dark, scary place.  I hit rock bottom in 2013.  One night I was having an orgy with two girls and a dealer, and my heart seized up.  I just kept hitting the crack, hoping for a heart attack.  I went to rehab on Christmas Day that year.  I had a few relapses, but I’ve been clean for four years now.  Recently I was taking some clients to a restaurant in Brooklyn, and as soon as I got out of the car, I noticed a woman coming toward me.  It was the girl who’d gotten me started.  She looked like Rihanna when I met her.  But now she looked horrible.  Her body had shrunk down to nothing.  Instantly I told her: ‘T, I have no money.’  But she spent fifteen minutes begging me and offering sex.  I told her that I couldn’t help her.  I felt horrible, but I couldn’t risk my own recovery by getting involved.   I remember that when we used to smoke, she’d always say: ‘Someday I’ll get clean, someday.’  But she never had a chance.  At the end of every night I could drive away.  I could go back to my phony fucking life in suburbia.  I could disconnect.  And when I decided to get clean, my neighbors and friends from the good side of life circled the wagons to help me.  But she had nowhere to go.  She had no one to help.  She lived in the insanity.
I was only sixteen when I got pregnant.  I was so disappointed in myself.  I thought I’d end up like one of those pregnant teens on Maury.  I did finish high school, I will say that.  But afterwards I had no good options.  My family didn’t have money.  My son’s father wasn’t around.  It was on me to do something.  So I joined the Navy.  I was basically gone for the next six years.  I had to leave my son with my parents.  It was an extremely hard decision.  But anything I did was going to look bad, if I had stayed behind, I would have just been a bum ass ‘project girl’ with a kid.  I had to provide.  And I was still a kid myself, so I needed experience.  When I came home for good, my son was seven years old.  He lives with me now.  We’re working on it.  I’d love for him to be a ‘mama’s boy,’ but in a lot of ways he’s still closer to my parents.  He gives them random hugs and kisses.  I have to ask for mine.  So we’ve still got a ways to go.  But I used the GI Bill to get a bachelor's degree.  And I’ve got a job where I make real money.  I’m proud of myself.  I work in a place that I never could have imagined when I was sixteen.  I have ‘work friends.’  I spend my day with people who are motivated to be better, not just in work, but as people.  I’m doing well.  And considering how I started, that’s an amazing thing.
I had the idea for a book right after I graduated from law school.  It’s a series of novels about superhuman professional fighters, like what the UFC would look like in the Marvel Universe.  I’d love to create an entire world like Tolkien did for Lord of The Rings. But right now it’s mostly just notes on my phone and computer.  I’ve had goals in the past, but not like this. I’ve never sunk so many hours into something. It’s become a very core part of my identity.  It’s like an application that’s constantly running in the background of my mind. Everything I see, I apply to the story.  The bridge behind me reminds me of the entrance to the main stadium, which is a sculpted archway of past fighters climbing over each other.  The book gives me a reason to explore more.  I'm taking long walks.  I’m looking deeper at things.  And I’m especially paying closer attention to other people.  It’s the only way to create believable characters. I have to think hard about the lives of people I meet, and the circumstances that made them who they are. So even if nothing else comes of the book, it’s made me a better person. Just having the goal has forced me to grow.
Ever since I was twelve years old, my mom wanted to bring us to America.  She said we’d be able to reach our goals faster.  At first she came alone.  In Peru she had a nice government job, but here she mopped floors and washed cars.  It took forever to get our papers because she wanted to bring us over legally.  There were so many times she told me to get read, but then it fell through.  I started to think it would never happen.  But then one year ago she called me and said it was time.  I left my whole life behind.  That first winter was so depressing.  I had to break up with my boyfriend. I didn’t know anyone here.  My English was suck.  I had my own bedroom in Peru, but here I had to share a room with three people.  I spent so much time crying.  I watched a lot of anime.  Even my cat wouldn’t play with me because she’s not very friendly.  But finally in March I found a job at a restaurant, and things began to turn around.  My coworkers became like family.  My manager Alizee is the most amazing person I’ve ever met.  And the guys in the kitchen help me with my English.  There’s a gym nearby, and after work I’ve been taking jiu-jitsu classes.  It’s helped me a lot.  There’s one position called guard, and as long as you can keep your guard up, you’ll be alright.  I feel like I’m finally in control.  This morning I paid for a whole semester of classes.  Last year was about surviving.  But this year I have goals.  The first one is to get better at jiu-jitsu.
My kids are going to be shocked when they become adults and learn that I’ve basically been playing a character for their entire lives.  All day long I have to pretend like I care about everything.  I’m a laid back guy.  I could actually care less if they make their beds.  Or if they scratch the walls.  But my character has expectations.  He says what he means and he does what he says.  My character hates video games.  He barely allows them in the house.  And he’ll banish them immediately when rules are broken.  But I actually play Mario Kart all the time when they’re at school.  Last week my character got really upset.  He threatened to throw away candy if the kids didn’t stop wrestling.  When the wrestling continued, he was forced to follow through.  I really thought it was a safe move.  It’d been so long since Halloween.  I was sure there’d be nothing good left, maybe just some chalky wafer things.  But the kid was saving the best stuff for last.  It was brutal.  Full sized candy bars.  There were tears.  I didn’t want to do it, but my character had to keep his word.  Then later I fished them out of the trash and ate them all.
(3/3) I ended up getting a full scholarship to SUNY Farmingdale as part of an anti-poverty program.  And I tell everyone who will listen: ‘Without Farmingdale, none of this would have been possible.’  I’ve been able to do so much in my life.  I’ve loved it all.  And I’ve brought passion to everything I do.  After graduation, I organized a program so disadvantaged black kids could tour historically black colleges in the South.  In my twenties I ran a youth program to help get kids off the street.  In my thirties I ‘jocked’ for three different radio stations on Long Island.  Then I entered the corporate world, and worked as the Director of Human Resources for Black Enterprise Magazine, Sesame Street, and Madison Square Garden.  Recently I retired and I’m beginning a new career as a background actor.  I’m starting to get some traction.  I’ve been a clubgoer on ‘God Friended Me,’ a juror on ‘Bull,’ a diner on ‘Bull,’ and a Costa Rican underworld gangster on ‘Blacklist.’  In some of the roles I have to pretend like I’m talking.  And I know that one day soon a director is going to notice me and give me an actual line of dialogue.  Check out this courtroom scene from ‘Shades of Blue.’  That’s Jennifer Lopez right there.  And who’s that behind her?  That’s right.  It’s Leon.
(2/3) My mother brought me to New York City when I was twelve years old.  We lived in an area of Long Island called ‘five towns.’  The first four towns were economically mobile.  But my town was the service community for the other four towns.  Our parents were the maids and chauffeurs.  I got myself a newspaper route when I turned thirteen.  There was one older man on my route who’d always give me a big tip if I could tell him the news.  So every morning I’d read two newspapers.  And every night I’d listen to Frankie Crocker on the radio.  He was ‘The Black Disc Jockey’ in New York at the time.  Every night from 4 PM to 8 PM, he’d play ‘R and B’ on 1600 WWRL , and you were a punk if you missed it.  One night he announced a contest to choose an honorary DJ.  I wrote an amazing letter because I listened every day, and I ended up winning.  I was sixteen years old.  The prize was supposed to be fifteen minutes on the air, but Crocker was so impressed that he gave me forty-five.  Before signing off, he asked me what I planned to do after graduating high school.  I told him: ‘I’m going to be the next Frankie Crocker!’
(1/3) I grew up in segregated Suffolk, Virginia in the 1950’s.  My elementary school had two rooms, two black teachers, and six grades.  I could never go downtown and shop in the stores.  I could never go to the movies.  I could never swim in the local swimming pool.  But we never cared about that stuff because we had a creek behind our house, and we didn’t have money for movies anyway.  My mother never let us accept the fact that we were poor.  There were seven of us, but we always wore shoes, not sneakers.  Mom wasn’t exactly the ‘lovey-dovey’ type.  She never used a switch on us, but she loved to use an example.  Every action in our house had an equal and opposite reaction.  In 1964 the World’s Fair came to town, and my high school band was invited to give a concert for the governor.  My mother gave me money to take my uniform to the cleaners.  But I never did it.  And she never let me go to that concert.  Before she died I drove her to the hospital, and I told her: ‘I’m still mad at you for not letting me go to the World’s Fair.’  She didn’t answer me, but she had this gleam in her eye that said: ‘You learned your lesson.’  And she’s right.  Those examples made me the man I am today.  I’ve literally done everything I wanted to do as a kid.  I may not have been to the World’s Fair, but I’ve been to Ghana.  I’ve been to the Caribbean.  I’ve travelled all over the world.
I got a Degree In The Written Arts, which is the most pretentious way of saying ‘English’ that my school could think of.  Two internships later, I’m still working at a restaurant.  I finally had an actual job interview last week.  The website said ‘big marketing firm,’ but the whole office fit in a closet.  Then I found out the job was ‘commission only.’  So I’m beginning to doubt that there’s a palpable job market in The Written Arts.  And I’m going to be paying off this education for the next ten years.  I’m bracing for the worst.  I feel like somebody who just realized that global warming is actually a thing.  It doesn’t help that my entire apartment is falling apart.  Our fridge broke down last week and we lost $120 worth of food.  Now my roommates are mad at me because I fumbled the negotiation with our landlord.  And to top it all off, my toilet overflowed this morning, with absolutely nothing to deserve it.  I just called my Mom for advice.  She recommended that I take a walk.  I was hoping she’d tell me that the water would go back in the toilet.  Either literally or metaphorically.
My dad comes from a place called Morocco that even my friends don’t know about.  It takes a whole day to get there.  It’s a little country with a little amount of people and little buildings made of sand.  At night there are a lot of bugs.  The people are nice but you can’t understand what they’re saying.  And they’ll give you food that you don’t know about.  But if you go into a store that’s owned by one of your dad’s friends, sometimes you’ll get extra candy.
It happened so quickly.  I’d just quit my job at an after school program. I’d been unemployed for three days.  I was waiting for my train at the 125th Street Station, and I noticed so much animosity.  It didn’t feel like a sharing and caring kind of place.  So I said to myself: ‘I’m going to help change the pace.’  I went to visit my high school chorus teacher, Mr. Williams, and I told him: ‘I want to sing on 125th Street.’  He thought it was great idea.  He said that he’d done the same thing when he was my age.  Together we found a cheap amp and microphone, and I gave it a try.  My first day was a Tuesday.  I stood on the downtown platform.  I’d never sung in public before.  I was so nervous that I couldn’t find my voice.  I wasn’t exactly mute, but I wasn’t fully singing either.  Then an old lady came up to me.  I’m pretty sure she was an angel.  She told me: ‘Sing Whitney Houston.’  Then she stood there, and kept saying: ‘Louder, louder, louder,’ until I was singing full volume.  I made $60 that day.  And I got so much positive feedback.  Now I’m singing four days a week and making enough to provide for me and my daughter.  And I get so much love.  So much love.  So, so much love.
Ten years ago I started a company.  It wasn’t a unicorn or anything, but after a few years it was worth a couple million dollars.  And that was enough for me.  I never wanted to be Bill Gates.  All I wanted was financial security.  And I thought I had achieved it.  We had a deal on the table.  It seemed like a sure thing.  It got so far along that I was sketching out my retirement.  But at the last moment it blew apart, and we never recovered.  Last Friday I called a personal bankruptcy attorney.  I haven’t even told my wife yet.  I want her to know the truth, but I don’t want to freak her out.  The stress is fucking killing me.  And I just turned sixty, so I’m grappling with the notion that I might not be employable.  After being successful for my whole life, suddenly I’m a failure.  But I’m trying not to let the dark side take over.  I'm fighting off suicidal thoughts.  I’m measuring my success by how well I can keep my humanity in the midst of this trauma.  If I can maintain respect for other people, it helps me feel better about myself.  So I’m trying not to snap at anyone.  I’m trying not to be vicious with my wife.  If I can’t be a successful person right now, at least I can be a good person.  And that’s a form of success.
The first time I tried it was in junior year of college.  I bought it from some guy in the library.  I was in acting school, and there was so much pressure put on our senior year showcase.  The pill gave me so much energy.  I remember making a seven-page spreadsheet of all the agents in New York, including their address, specialty, and preferred method of contact.  Adderall gave me an ‘in’ to caring.    It’s so hard to be an actor in New York.  You have to want it so badly.  But I’d always struggled with depression and lack of motivation.  I thought I’d finally found the solution.  I just went to the psychiatrist and told them I needed a prescription.  It was so easy to get.  It went from every week, to every other day, to every day.  I built my life around it.  It got to the point where I’d never leave the house or coffee shop.  I wasn’t even getting real work done.  I was just doing random shit.  I’d write songs, tinker with my website, and send random messages to people I hardly knew.  I wasn’t sleeping.  I hardly ate.  And the moment I stopped taking the pill, I’d feel disgusting.  I was destroying my body.  But the thing about Adderall is,  if you don’t tell anyone, nobody really knows.  From the outside it just looks like you’re motivated and working hard.  But you’re horribly addicted.  You look like you.  But it’s not really you.
I grew up in Australia.  For the first twenty-three years of my life, I lived and worked and partied within the space of a mile.  I had no goals.  I went out every night of the week.  But then in 2007 I went to visit a friend in Japan.  It was my first time on a plane, and suddenly I became addicted to the feeling of seeing something new.  I’ve travelled to fifty-one countries over the past ten years.  From March to October I work as a bartender on a small Scottish island.  I don’t take days off.  And that allows me to save enough money for another six months of travel, as long as I book far in advance.  And stay in hostels.  And limit myself to two meals a day.  I always avoid the expensive attractions.  My favorite thing to do is sit in parks.  After this I’m headed to Niagara Falls.  Then it’s up to Alaska.  I’m not sure what the end goal is.  I don’t have a bucket list.  I don’t feel the need to see every country.  In the beginning I was running away from my partying.  But now I’m just addicted to the unfamiliar.  Most of my friends are starting families and settling into their careers.  And I don’t have any savings.  So there are definitely times when I question if it’s worth it, but never while I’m traveling. 
I’ve always wanted to be a dad early in life.  I want to be energetic and active and mobile.  I’d like my parents to experience being grandparents.  My dad was thirty-three when I was born, so that’s always been a bit of a benchmark.  And unfortunately it just passed by.  But it’s not something I have any control over. In every other area of life, I can make progress by putting in work.  I can practice.  I can gain new skills.  But the harder I pursue having a family, the further away it seems.  It’s difficult to enter a relationship with children in mind.  It complicates things.  You ask heavy questions a little earlier than you should.  So I just do my best to put it out of my mind.  I’m in town for an engagement party right now, and last night I crashed with an old college friend.  This morning I helped feed his baby son.  I was pretty good at it.  He’s a picky eater, so I had to pretend to take bites myself.  I had to make funny faces.  I had to ‘boop’ him on the nose with the spoon.  But I got him to eat his breakfast.  And I guess it was the novelty of feeding someone, but the whole experience just rekindled the notion of: ‘I want this for myself.’
My therapist told me that reading the news was causing my depression.  So I’ve managed to completely avoid it for the past five years.  I used to consume articles for four hours every day.  I’d always read the New York Times front to back, everything except the sports section.  But then the Times caused the Iraq war so I switched over to leftist websites.  I always thought it was my obligation as a responsible citizen to pay attention to bad news.  I guess I was looking for some sort of understanding.  If only I could learn enough, then maybe I could help organize something.  But all of it just sent me into utter despair.  I began to look at other people as brainwashed.  Every time I saw someone having kids, I’d get angry.  Don’t they realize how uninhabitable the planet is going to be?  Everyone thinks if we just make a few changes, we’ll be fine.  We won’t be fine.  The problem is systemic and there’s no movement capable of ending capitalism in time to save the planet.  But anyway, I’m trying not to obsess over this stuff anymore.
I’m trying to be an installation artist, but it can be tough to sell your work. I love fairytales because they juxtapose romance and beauty with people getting their feet cut off.  So my last piece was a three-tiered chandelier of hundreds of honey bears suspended by their necks with vice grips, and dripping honey onto a bed of poisonous flowers.
I’ve known most of my close friends since I was four or five.  We went to the same schools.  We’d go to the same summer camps together.  So for the first eighteen years of my life, I was never really forced to meet new people.  But last year I went to college in North Carolina, and it was the first time that I didn’t know anybody.  During orientation they had some sort of street fair so that you could meet new people.  I followed a bunch of guys from my dorm there.  I tried jumping into the conversation a few times, but it seemed like everyone was talking to each other more.  Eventually they peeled off, and I just walked up and down the street alone.  That pretty much set the tone for the rest of the semester.  It was the longest four months of my life.  It seemed like everyone was making friends except me.  Or they’d already formed groups and weren’t accepting new people.  I kept hearing other kids making plans after class, and it was a reminder that other people were making connections that I couldn’t.  I spent most of my free time alone in my room.  I’d sleep through entire weekends.  I felt like a broken social person.  Recently I transferred to a school closer to home, and it’s been much better.  There were a few familiar faces, which helped.  But I’ve also relearned how to make friends.  I’ve joined a few groups.  I’ve put myself out there more.  I’m being more consistent with people.  And I’m trying not to take it personally if someone says ‘no’ to an invitation.  I’ve met some new friends this year.  And I’ve realized that being social isn’t really something you are.  It’s something you have to practice.
Have you ever thought about how we’re living in a society designed to give us anything we want, but we’re essentially the same people who lived during tribal times?  We’re catering to the same base needs like warmth and sex and social gratification, but we’re doing so through unnatural means.  If you think about it, the scrolling mechanism on a phone is a bit like strolling through a forest.  We still come across unknown things.  But now the first judgment that comes to our mind is immediately reinforced.  We can say I like it, and we’ll be given more of the same.  Or we can say ‘I don’t like it,’ and the thing will go away forever.  That single mechanism ascribes permanence to our most basic instincts.  We’re never forced to ask: ‘Why do I like it?’  Or ‘Should I like it?’  We’re living in a world that always adapts to us, so we never have to adapt to the world.  I wonder how that affects us.  I also wonder why we like squirrels but hate rats.  Because they’re both rodents.
I just finished medical school.  Now I’m heading to residency, which is supposed to be even tougher.  I’ve been working sixteen-hour days.  Then I’m expected to study every night when I get home.  Some of my classmates only sleep three hours per night.  I tried that for a few months during my surgery rotation, but I ended up getting really depressed.  I felt completely depersonalized.  Everything seemed like a dream.  To make matters worse, a lot of the instructors are jerks.  I think they went through hell when they were students, so they feel like they should put us through hell.  On the first day of rotations, my attending physician told me: ‘I’m an asshole, but I’ll make you a better doctor.’  He made fun of me in front of other students.  He put me down in front of patients.  He’d threaten to kick me out every day.  I guess they’re trying to weed people out and make strong doctors.  But they’re just traumatizing people.  They’re making us apathetic.  I got into medicine because I really wanted to make a difference in people’s lives.  But after going through hell, I just don’t care anymore.
My high school wasn’t very challenging.  I never had to struggle.  I was 15th in the class.  Section leader in my marching band.  Top of this.  Top of that.  Where I grew up, not too many people go to college out of state.  So when I got accepted into West Point, I assumed that I’d continue to succeed.  But I finished my first semester with a 2.5 GPA.  Not only was I barely surviving, but I felt like I was trying as hard as I could.  I started thinking: ‘Am I dumb?  Can I even do this?’  My second semester I had a physics teacher named Major Bowen.  He was honest with me about my faults.  He told me that I needed to get more sleep.  And that I had poor time management skills.  But he also told me some nice stuff.  He said that I was a good student to have in class.  And that I was definitely smart enough to succeed.  It’s nice to hear that stuff when you’re surrounded by so many naturally talented people.  Major Bowen showed me ways to become more efficient.  I started using calendars.  I started studying in groups.  I began tutoring people in calculus, because teaching is the best way to really learn a subject.  Six weeks into the second semester I got my first test back, and it was an ‘A.’  It was a ’90,’ but it was an ‘A.’  It was like: ‘Oh, wow.  I can do this.’
The symptoms didn’t start until I was seventeen.  I was volunteering at a soup kitchen one day and I got such bad stomach pain that I had to sit down.  That’s when I learned about Crohn’s disease, which basically means that I have ulcerations in my intestine.  It’s pretty brutal.  Constant pain.  Sometimes I can’t get out of bed.  Other times I throw up blood.  Once I got so desperate that I tried to heal myself with a thirty-five day water fast.  It didn’t work, and by the end I was down to 95 lbs.  I’ve gone through a lot of depression because of the pain.  Honestly, if it wasn’t for my wife and kids, I might have ended it by now. It’s heartbreaking for my wife to see me go through it.  And it’s heartbreaking for me to put her through it.  I feel like I’m holding her back.  She’s so adventurous.  She loves dancing, and traveling, and going out, and exploring.  And I can’t do any of that.  We took a three-day trip to the mountains in Seattle and I spent the entire time in tears on the couch.  Same thing happened when we took the kids to Disneyland.  I just hate being the sick husband.  She has to pick up so much of the slack.  But we’ve been to marital counseling.  And I’ve told her all of this.  And she swears that she wouldn’t change a thing.  And that she loves me just how I am.  And that I’m not a burden.  I don’t know, man.  We’ve been through so much shit together.  I guess she just really loves me.
Every month in prison they had something called Inmate Council, where you get to meet with the prison administration and make suggestions.  I volunteered to be the representative for my housing unit.  And toward the end of the meeting, the warden asked if anyone had questions or concerns.  The NBA finals were going on at the time.  So I raised my hand and asked: ‘If the Cavs force a game seven, can we keep the TV on past lock up time?’  And she agreed.  She agreed in front of everyone.  So when game seven came around, all of us were excited.  We gathered around the TV in the dayroom to watch the game.  But right as the second quarter was starting, the television clicked off.  The CO came down and tried to kick everybody out.  I told her the warden gave us permission, but she said it didn’t matter. And that’s when things began to go downhill.  We refused to leave.  The CO went behind a protected gate and pulled the silent alarm.  We grabbed all the tables and chairs and stacked them up against the door.  We covered the floor in shampoo and water.  The security team came back with riot gear and huge cans of pepper spray, but we kept the door closed for over two hours.  When they finally got inside, they were slipping all over the place.  We just laid down on the floor and put our hands behind our back.  I was given thirty days in solitary confinement.  But I had to do the right thing.  Women are allowed to vote because some woman wanted to vote.  The Civil Rights Movement started because Rosa Parks didn’t want to get out of her seat. And next time there’s a game seven of the NBA Finals, I bet they’re going to leave the TV on in Building Six at Rikers Island.
All my early memories are of my mom being an alcoholic.  We lived in a pretty ghetto area.  There was never food in the house.  We stole electricity from the neighbors.  Things were so bad that my dad got custody of us when I was five, but it wasn’t much better with him.  He always chose his girlfriends over us.  We moved around a lot.  During this time my mom would send me drunk texts.  She’d call me a horrible daughter and accuse me of forsaking her.  My whole childhood was unstable.  And I always craved stability.  The more I saw the relationships that my parents had with other people, the more I wanted to be a part of it.  I moved back in with my mother last year.  I helped her pay the bills.  I made sure she had food on the table.  I woke her up in the morning to go for job interviews.  It was awful.  She was drunk all the time.  But I knew that she needed me, and that gave me some sort of purpose.  I don’t really know what I’m doing with my life.  Or who I am.  Or what I want to be.  But if someone is dependent on me, then at least it’s a reason to stick around.  All my relationships have been like that.  I’m drawn to people who are insecure.  Who need to be wanted.  And then I do things to make them feel alone so they rely on me even more.  And if they ever try to pull away, I use my feelings to make them feel guilty.  It’s pretty toxic behavior.  But I learned from the best.
I’m a singer and songwriter.  And a bartender.  And a babysitter.  On weekends I host dinner parties for $65 a plate.  And I make soap to sell online.  And candles.  And tea baths.  And hair conditioner. And shampoo.  Basically I’m broke.  And I need a vacation.  But I’m on the move.  And I’m not stopping until somebody writes me a check for some of my music.
There were moments we had hope.  At one point he took this trial drug that magically melted his cancer away.  But despite the emotional swings, he only ended up living for sixteen months—which was exactly the initial prognosis.  Our three kids are still in high school.  Everything is uncertain right now.  It’s like I’m twenty years old again but without the excitement.  The only way I’ve been able to cope is by not stopping.  I couldn’t control my husband’s death, but I can make sure my kids don’t suffer in any other part of their lives.  We still get together with friends.  We still plan things.  I bought us expensive Broadway tickets on Father’s Day.  And afterward we went to the horse track, which was his favorite thing to do.  The homework is still getting done.  College applications are getting filled out.  So I don’t have time for a meltdown.  People think I’m doing better.  But honestly, life doesn’t seem good anymore.  It’s all so unfair.  Everything just comes to a screeching halt and you weren’t done yet.  I wasn’t done having a husband.  My kids weren’t done having a Dad.  So nothing really excites me anymore.  But I’ll still decorate for Christmas.  And we’ll still go to Disney World in June.  Because I never want the kids to think that they’re not enough.  Not long after my husband’s death, my son saw me crying, and asked: ‘Aren’t we enough to make you happy?’  That broke my heart.  I decided that I’m never going to let them feel that way again.


I’ve wanted to go into construction since high school. I used to help my dad out all the time. Everything in our house we built ourselves. But my teachers tried to steer me down a different path. They’d encourage me to ‘figure things out.’ They’d say: ‘Why don’t you do this?’ or ‘Why don’t you do that?’ But I chose construction because it’s what I like to do. I got my union card at eighteen. The pay isn’t bad. I get benefits. It feels good to be young and working every day. But I see all these advertisements on the subway, and they basically say: ‘If you want to be successful, you have to go to college.’ All my friends went to college. Some of them have liberal arts degrees that I didn’t even know existed. A couple more dropped out. The ones who graduated can’t find jobs and have a lot of student debt. But they still look at me like I’m on the wrong path. When I tell them I can help them get a job in construction, they always say the same thing: ‘Why would we want to do that?’


I lived in chaos for a long time, but I’ve been sober for thirty years.  And I’ve got a tremendous amount of gratitude for that.  Right now I have no money, no job, and no man.  But I’ve never been happier.  Because my only addictions are chocolate ice cream, feeling good, and gossip.


We normally spent time together on Sundays.  Because that was the only day he wasn’t drunk.  We’d watch football together.  I could name every player in the NFL.  Then he’d take me out to the backyard and have me throw footballs through a tire.  He wanted speed and accuracy.  He said he didn’t want me throwing like a girl.  He showed me how to use my hips to get extra power.  On weeknights he’d usually come home and pass out in the living room.  But if he’d been drinking hard liquor, he’d get angry.  That’s when I’d go up to my room and put on my headphones.  I’d listen to Alice Cooper or Black Sabbath and turn up the volume.  But I started to notice a pattern.  The yelling would get louder and louder until it suddenly stopped.  And that’s how I knew the beating had begun.  The next morning my mother would have bruises or fractures or missing teeth.  She’d always give me some lame excuse about falling down the stairs.  But I knew what was happening.  And for years I had this rage building inside of me.  Then one night, I finally took off my headphones.  I went downstairs and caught him in the act.  I ripped the phone off the kitchen wall and threw it as hard as I could at his head.  Right through the tire hole.  He woke up on the floor, called me a terrible daughter, and never touched my mother again.


Everyone is at war, except for me.  One uncle is fighting with the other.  My aunt’s not talking to Grandma.  Grandma isn’t talking to anyone.  She said that nobody’s coming to her house this year.  Christmas is cancelled.  I guess it’s always been like this.  But now everyone’s old enough that they don’t have to pretend for the kids anymore.  All of it’s out in the open.  I miss the ignorance of childhood.  When we’d all go to church, cook a big dinner, gather in a circle to read the Polar Express, and I wouldn’t notice that the adults were talking to the children more than each other. 
I was working as a prep cook at a BBQ joint in Harlem.  I got off work early one day, and I discovered my wife with another man.  That was the beginning of all this.  I’d been with her for twenty-one years.  I was devastated.  I got right back on the bus and headed back to the city.  I went straight to the bars on 42nd Street. I got wasted every day.  I lost my wallet, my phone, my contacts.  I didn’t want to do nothing.  I just said ‘F it.’  I’ve been out on the streets for eight months.  When it’s time to rest, I find a place to sleep.  But I spend most of my time here on this block.  These are the best people on this block.  I’ve never experienced so many good people in my life.  Some of them help me out every single day.  They say: ‘What are you doing out here?  We’ve never met anyone like you.’  Lily and her daughter brought the whole family to meet me on Thanksgiving.  I felt like a celebrity.  Then there’s Cheryl with the glasses who just walked by a couple minutes ago.  Love her.  John and his wife, love them too.  David and Michael are the best.  And what’s up to my man Sean from the beauty parlor.  Shout out to T and Marianne.  So many good friends on this block.  But they aren’t going to see me much longer because I found a program that’s going to give me a place to stay, and a job cleaning the streets.  I’m done with this life.  I don’t belong here.  And I know my grandkids miss Grandpa.  So if you don’t see me here soon, you can say: ‘He’s done it!  He’s gone!’  But I’m going to shock everybody.  Cause I’m coming back with Christmas cards.
Back in college they called me Mailbox Head.  Because my head was pretty big.  Mailbox Head was a little bit reckless.  I didn’t really have a plan in life back then.  I drank too much.  I threw illegal parties on campus.  I climbed abandoned bridges.  One time I broke my tailbone because I thought it’d be fun to make a toboggan out of a beer banner.  The wild behavior carried over into the first few years of my marriage.  But when I was 27, my daughter was born.  Three months later I went hiking with my buddies, and I started to climb a cliff without ropes.  And I got about eighty feet up, and I couldn’t get any higher.  But I also couldn’t get down.  I was so desperate that I was about to jump.  I kept thinking about my daughter.  Somehow my friend talked me down, and I ended up surviving.  But that was the end of Mailbox Head.
When my kid was twelve years old, I told him: ‘There are three things that are bullshit in this world: Santa Claus, professional wrestling, and politics.’  Yet people get so emotional about politics.  They’re always spouting sound bites from their favorite cable channel.  It’s so boring.  There’s no creativity.  Nothing but sound bites.  Then on Election Day, my newsfeed is filled with people posting smug pictures about how they voted.  Like it really matters.  In the end, the people with money are still going to be calling the shots.  Nothing matters.  But I guess it makes people feel like their life isn’t meaningless if they’re spouting off on Facebook.  I hardly ever post anything.  My profile picture is Uncle Sam and my cover image is an eagle shitting on him.
There was a permanent dark cloud in the house.  It was abuse in every way.  Mental.  Physical.  Sexual.  It was permanent fear.  Whenever my father was home, I just locked myself in my room and tried to be as quiet as possible.  My mother and I finally escaped when I was six, but the abuse stayed with me.  I didn’t make any friends at school.  I couldn’t trust anyone.  It was an open wound.  But when I was fourteen, my mom told me that we could do something about it.  She asked me if I’d be willing to testify.  And I agreed.  The trial happened two years later at my father’s military base.  I hadn’t seen him in ten years.  The lawyers told me I didn’t have to be in the courtroom when I testified, but I felt like I needed to face him.  Just to show that I wasn’t afraid anymore.  He was already seated when I walked in the room.  I put my hand on the Bible and looked right at him.  For a moment, I felt a stroke of fear wash over me.  Like I was a kid again.  But I set it aside and gave my testimony.  It felt like a huge weight had been lifted off my shoulders.  He was sentenced to ten years in prison.  I’ve moved on with my life.  I don’t think about him.  I’ve grown to look like him, but I’m not him.  Even if someone tells me I’m him, I’m not him.  I’m me.  I’ve lived my entire life to not be him.
It’s our anniversary today.  We always talk about how lucky we are to have found our person.  I wasn’t even supposed to go to the bar that night.  My friends and I were going to a golf tournament the next morning, so we wanted to get some sleep.  But at the last minute we decided to grab a quick drink.  My buddies were doing their thing, so I decided to take a lap around the bar.  And I noticed one girl that was just glowing.  I’m pretty sure that she was sitting right under one of the bar lights.  I just had to go for it.  I walked right up to her.  I said something like: ‘I want to take this opportunity to introduce myself to you.  After that I was grasping at straws.  I kept trying to find a common denominator.  But the best I could come up with was that she was in the same sorority as my friend’s cousin.  Somehow we ended up talking for the next fifteen minutes. The bar was so loud that we had to lean in to talk to each other.  At one point we actually touched cheeks.  And my buddies are gonna tear me apart for this, but I just remember thinking that she had the softest face.  I gave her my number at the end of the conversation.  I wasn’t really expecting to hear from her.  But the next day she told her mom the story, and her mom said: ‘Give him a call.  You don’t have to marry him.’


My dad does two jobs.  Sometimes he does fire fighter.  And sometimes he does police officer and fights crimes for the city by using smarts and helping people.  He says that the bad guys don’t always mean to steal, but they feel like they have to because their families are poor.  But if they sell drugs and make people sick then my dad will have to really arrest them for real.  I had an idea that one day I’m going to send notes to the bad guys and tell them not to do crimes anymore.  Then my dad can hand out the notes every time he fights a crime.  I'm going to say: ‘Dear bad guys, if you stop doing crimes, then you’ll have a better life and a better family.  And people will start to notice that you’re being a good guy and you’ll have a lot more friends.  And then everyone will help you and come visit you and you’ll start to feel really proud of yourself for being nice and having a nice family.’




We moved from Brazil three years ago.  We love Thanksgiving.  We cook everything.  But we’re still learning many things about the American culture.  Back home everyone likes to hug and kiss on the cheek.  It communicates that you care about someone.  But here it is different.  My friend tried to give me a Thanksgiving handshake at the gym today.  But I went in for a Thanksgiving hug.  And he only gave me a Thanksgiving half-hug.  A few months ago I was called into Human Resources, and they said: ‘Mr. Mauricio, no more hugging at the office.  It is making people uncomfortable.’  So I learned my lesson that day.  I came home and told the children: ‘Be careful not to touch your classmates.’




We’ve been boyfriend and girlfriend for just over two months.  We met at camp.  We didn’t talk to each other much at camp.  But then we decided to talk more after camp.  I go to boarding school, so this is the first time we’ve seen each other for five weeks.  But we talk a lot on the phone.  And we’ll help each other if we’re having a rough day.  This week I had an AP US History Exam.  I studied all the wrong stuff.  I thought there’d be a lot more questions on the War of 1812.  But instead there were a ton of questions about The American Revolution.  So I was pretty depressed. But she texted me and said: ‘You tried your best.  It’s all you can do.’  Then we talked about it all night until I went to bed.  And it just felt really nice to have somebody to make you feel better.




My wife urged me to take this little trip to New York so that I can clear my head.  It’s just for two days.  But my leash has been so short lately that it feels like an eternity.  Part of me definitely died when our daughter was born.  I was always a free spirited person.  I traveled a lot.  I never had a boss.  I had all the choices in the world.  But a lot of that disappeared in order to make things possible for my daughter.  I watch her during the day. And I’m not mad about it.  This is the happiest time of my life.  It would be great if my daughter was here right now.  It’d be so fun to watch her run around the park.  But I’d also be worried about her safety.  And the diaper bag.  And the car seat.  And the stroller.  And our next meal.  And our next place to stay.  There’s always a flickering flame of worry that doesn’t go away.  Back home we live by the beach.  And if my wife ever senses that I’m getting overwhelmed, she tells me to go jump in the ocean.  And that resets me for a few days.  It’s all I need.  I just need a little space to be me.  Because it can be so easy to get lost in helping a new person become someone.




I’ve got a stepson living with us at home.  He came over from the Ukraine when he was eighteen.  He was OK in the beginning.  I took him to some places.  We did some things.  But now he’s twenty-six.  And he’s still there.  His mom does everything for him.  She cooks, cleans, does his laundry, everything but wipe his butt.  He just stays in his room and reads his books.  It’s not that he’s a bad kid.  He doesn’t drink or do drugs.  But he’s just always there.  When I come home from work I want to relax.  I want to forget about my day.  I don’t want to listen to his loud voice.  And I don’t want him standing in the kitchen when I’m trying to cook.  I swear he steps in front of me on purpose.  And don’t even get me started on the bathroom.  This kid takes actual baths.   A normal guy takes a fucking shower, but not my stepson.  Hour long baths.




There was a program in San Francisco where they’d come into public schools and teach movement.  They’d look for kids with potential and give them scholarships to dance school.  They visited my school in third grade.  And I guess they saw something in me, because they provided two free ballet classes per week.  I didn’t really like it at first.  But one night I went to see The Nutcracker, and it inspired me to become a dancer.  I enrolled in a serious ballet school, and by the age of thirteen I was dancing five days a week.  Then six days a week.  The school started to get really competitive as we got older.  Everybody wanted to be a soloist.   Kids would come to the school from all over the world.  Some of them were ‘bunheads.’  All they did was dance and watch tapes.  But most of us were more balanced.  Ballet is extremely rigid, so if you have the opportunity to have fun, you take it.  I started drinking a lot.  And doing a lot of drugs.  It was hard to hide.  I’d come to class late and tired.  I ended up dropping out of regular high school.  The dance school never approved of that decision, but I always hated studying.  Personally I don’t think I ever lost my edge.  I was just driven in ballet and partying at the same time.  They kicked me out of the school when I turned twenty.  I knew it was coming, because that’s the age when you either go to college or join a dance company.  But neither of those were options for me, so I just quit completely.  That’s when the dancing stopped.  But the partying kept going.




Being six is so hard.  I have to go to school, and do math, and do a lot of words, and spell things, and take tests every Friday, and exercise, and play games that I don’t want to play.  And mom says we’re going to have another baby soon, so it’s going to be crazy.  We wanted a girl but we got a boy.  I don’t even know what I’m going to do.  I already have one brother who hits too much and goes everywhere without permission.




We’ve been together five years.  I wanted a marriage, a family, the whole thing.  But he wasn’t ready for a child.  So I think he was hoping I’d end the pregnancy.  He claims I took control of his life by keeping the baby.  He’s not the type of person to abandon his child, so he thinks I forced his hand.  At first it seemed like he was going to make the most of it.  He told all his friends about the pregnancy.  He took me out to eat.  We had a little vacation.  But that changed quickly.  There was no stomach rubbing.  No asking how I felt.  He started going out a lot, and stopped kissing me goodbye.  Our son is seventeen months now.  We still live under the same roof, but that’s about it.  There’s no physical intimacy.  Very little communication.  He’s always great with our son.  They play together and have a great time.  But there’s no ‘three of us.’  We never go anywhere together.  Or if we do, the conversation is awkward and surface level.  I try talking to him.  I tell him: ‘If you hate me or resent me, just let me know.’  But he says: ‘Quit forcing things.  Let it become what it’s going to be.’  But it’s been eighteen months and it hasn’t become anything.  He never wants to talk about our relationship.  I know that I should leave him, but I just don’t have the courage.  I keep hoping something will change.  Because I always wanted the experience of raising a child together.




He was the RA in my freshman dorm.  His nickname was ‘Rock.’  He was blonde and skinny and made legendary mix tapes for the dance parties.  We never talked much in college, but we became good friends when we reconnected at a reunion.  The event was eighties themed.  There were a lot of Talking Heads cover songs, and we danced all night.  After that we started talking every day.  Even though we live on different coasts, we’d find different ways to connect.  He’d create scavenger hunts for me.  He’d send me on missions to find obscure books and records.  And we began making mix tapes together.  Both of us come from research backgrounds, so we take our mix tapes very seriously.  MMTR is our acronym for the meaning of music: ‘Magic, Meditation, Therapy, Reunion.’  So there’s a lot of MMTR mix tapes: ‘MMTR I,’ ‘MMTR II,’ ‘MMTR III,’ ‘MMTR 80’s,’ ‘MMTR 90’s.’  Then there’s ‘Clan McJangle,’ which is nothing but Scottish Pop.  Then we’ve got another called ‘Buzz Gems,’ which is nothing but guitar songs under three minutes that alternate decades as you go down the playlist.  Our mix tapes hold us together.  Lately we’ve been working on a business together.  And if we ever get too frustrated, we just put on our headphones, choose a mix tape, and hit play at the exact same time.


I sold phone covers back in Ghana, but it wasn’t going anywhere.  So I came to South Africa to see if I could change my life.  I tried to switch over to the clothing business.  I knew how to sew, so I decided to give it a shot.  But things are even worse than before.  I can stand here all day and not get a single customer.  I’ve been at it for three years, and I don’t even know why I’m still making an effort.  I should have a wife by now.  And a house.  And kids.  But I have nothing.  How can I meet someone when I can’t even provide for myself?  Recently I fell in love with a woman.  She sells food around here.  We used to talk every day and night.  We bathed together, and slept together, and prayed together.  She’d give me smiles and kisses.  I didn’t have much, but I gave her what little I had.  For once I was finally happy.  Then she came over to my house one evening, and saw that I didn’t have anything.  No radio.  No television.  Nothing.  And she pretended like everything was OK.  She acted like it didn’t bother her.  But two weeks later she broke off contact.  She never said it was because I don’t have money.  But it’s because I don’t have money.  Sometimes I think I should just kill myself.  (Johannesburg, South Africa)




I used to work as a producer at a media company.  It was one of those cultures where you worked until you had nothing left to give.  My boss’s voice would be the first thing I heard every morning.  He’d phone me at 5 AM, asking ‘Have you done this?  Have you followed up with that?’  He’d put me down.  He’d shout at me during meetings.  I can tell you the exact type of tile in the office because I spent so much time looking down.  And I wasn’t allowed to grow.  I wasn’t allowed to do anything on the creative side.  I could only handle the budgets.   Once I asked him if I could leave early one day to take a course in art direction, and he said: ‘What makes you think you could succeed at something like that?’  That’s when I finally quit.  I freelanced for a while.  And the more distance I got from the job, the more I realized that I’d allowed myself to be pigeonholed.  I wanted to do something creative.  I started trying to save money to attend the New York Film Academy, but it was so expensive that I decided to put all that money into gear instead.  And for the past couple months, I’ve been making short documentaries about people.  I’ve made about twenty of them so far.  I let the person use the video however they’d like.  I’m not sure what will come of it, and I’ve only got a couple months of savings left, but for the first time in my life I feel like I’m using all of my talents.  And I’ve never had this much fun.(Johannesburg, South Africa)




My first job in film was as a trainee on a feature.  I think it was called ‘Gums and Noses.’  I cleaned the toilet, swept, made tea— things like that.  All I ever got was money for transportation, which was fine for me.  I just wanted to be on a film set.  But with two weeks left of filming, there was a bit of a disaster in the camera department.  A trainee blew up an HD monitor by plugging it into the wrong hole.  Which was a shame, but it was great for me because I always wanted to be a cinematographer.  When I heard them say they needed a replacement, I raised my hand and said: ‘Me, me, me!’  So that’s how it started.  And it never stopped.  The camera department can be a weird place.  It’s all white and male.  And it’s a bit like boot camp.  A lot of the guys are mean.  They don’t like being approached by subordinates.  And if you make a mistake, they’ll scream at you.  A lot of the guys act like they’re curing cancer instead of making beautiful pictures.  But I had thick skin.  So I moved up quickly.  Recently I DP’ed one of the most popular shows in South Africa.  And I run my department a little differently.  It’s much more chill.  I think we should all share our knowledge.  Nobody should be afraid to make mistakes or feel embarrassed to ask questions.  And one trainee should always be a girl.  It doesn’t matter if she’s studied or not, as long as she’s keen.(Johannesburg, South Africa)




I grew up thinking that it was a good thing to rob the white man.  Everyone fought injustice in their own way.  But in my neighborhood, we opposed the government by breaking into houses and robbing people.  But in 1994 we were told: ‘Democracy is coming.  Apartheid is ending.  It’s time to learn a trade.’  So I listened.  I did everything I was supposed to do.  I’ve worked in construction for the past twenty-five years.  I started my own company.  I followed all the procedures.  But nothing has come of it.  The government always talks about empowerment.  They make a big show of letting small businesses compete for contracts.  But the jobs always get awarded to the same few people.  If the government gave me work, it would empower me.  Then I could empower other people.  I could hire employees and teach them plumbing, and carpentry, and cabinets.  I could purchase a brick making machine, and hire women to mix cement.  But right now I can’t even afford a printer for my office.  Everything is hand to mouth.  I had high hopes when apartheid ended.  But I’ve been building houses for twenty-five years, and I’m still living in a shack.(Johannesburg, South Africa)




My dad moved us from Congo when I was a teenager.  I wasn’t given a choice in the matter.  I didn’t know anyone.  I couldn’t speak English.  And for a while I had an identity crisis.  I felt like my skin was too dark and my build was too muscular.  Other kids were telling me that I looked like a boy.  I got bullied a lot.  I didn’t have any friends.  I began to feel depressed.  Then one weekend I got invited to a party at a boy’s house.  I was excited to go.  But when I got there, it was nothing but drunk people.  Everyone was passing around a joint.  And when it got to me, the boy said: ‘Trust me, you’ll love it.’  So I tried it.  And I did love it.  Next thing you know, I was going out every weekend.  I started drinking heavily.  I was high all the time.  My grades began to drop.  But I was also getting cooler.  I was never alone anymore.  I was hanging out with popular people.  We all hyped each other up, so it was easy to ignore the consequences of our behavior.  But whenever I was alone again, I felt like I didn’t know myself anymore.  I was heading down the wrong path.  That’s not how I was brought up.  So I had to get conscious.  I had to be honest about what brings me happiness: writing poetry, reading books, and sometimes being alone.  I backed away from the party lifestyle.  I became more selfish with my time.  The other night I ran into a few of my old friends, and they were a little mad because I hadn’t been around.  They said I was acting like I was above it all.  But that’s not the case.  I’m just at a different stage of my life.(Johannesburg, South Africa)




I’m studying human rights.  It’s a long way off, but one day I’d like to be a lawyer and protect vulnerable populations in Africa.  My mother is African but I grew up in France.  In high school I went on a humanitarian mission to provide health and education for a village in Senegal.  There was no water.  There was no electricity.  We visited a small orphanage where the children had to beg for their food every day.  They had no choice, because if they came back with nothing, they didn’t eat.  I cried myself to sleep that night.  And when I returned to France, I felt guilty for everything: for living where I live, for having a family, for growing up in a rich country with education and healthcare.  I didn’t tell many people about my experience.  I didn’t want it to seem like a trophy.  And I was aware of the irony because France colonized Senegal.  But that trip opened my eyes to the opportunities I’d been taking for granted.  It made me appreciate the choices that I have in life.  And since those choices are a privilege, I want to use them to help other people.(Johannesburg, South Africa)


I started bodybuilding after my chemotherapy.  At first it was just a way to get healthy again.  But I discovered I was good at it.  I started winning competitions.  And I got hooked.  My boyfriend didn’t like it.  He thought it made me less desirable.  But the worse our relationship got, the more I focused on working out.  It just felt so great to be recognized for something.  I was really, really good at it.  And the bodybuilding community is so great.  They’re some of the least judgmental people because they’re used to being judged all the time.  For the first few years I was really self-conscious about my body.  But I’ve gotten to the point where the small comments don’t really bother me anymore: ‘ew,’ gross,’ ‘disgusting’, things like that.  I can usually block people out if they can’t type more than a sentence.   But occasionally the criticism sinks in.  It still hurts when people question my gender.  Or my sexuality.  And I’ve had some awkward Tinder dates.  The last guy said: ‘Holy fuck, you’re bigger than I thought you’d be.’  But despite all this, I’ve gotten comfortable in my own skin.  I actually feel more feminine now than I did growing up.  I was always skinny.  I never had breasts.  I didn’t ever feel like a natural woman.  But what is natural?  Is make-up natural?  Or botox?  Or fillers?  Or breast implants?  All of us are flawed.  My mask might be different than other people, but we all hide behind something.  I just hide behind my muscles.(Johannesburg, South Africa)




My dream is to create an incubator of sorts.  It can be difficult for start-ups to get funding in South Africa, so I’m trying to build a platform that connects investors and entrepreneurs.  I’ve been working on it full time for about a year now.  But the idea hasn’t taken off as quickly as I’d hoped.   Don’t get me wrong, I’m still on the grind.  I’m still having meetings and trying to put together deals.  I’m telling myself that no matter what, I’m going to figure this out.  But if I’m being absolutely honest with you, it’s not looking promising.  I’ve got about two or three months of runway left.  The bank has been calling me every day because of the credit card.  And my car just broke down, which will probably eat up twenty percent of my remaining reserves.  My options are running out.  It’s a lot of pressure, but I’m trying to focus on the bright side.  I made it a whole year.   We built the initial platform and had a few users.  And I’ve moved forward as a person.  I’ve gained a lot of new insights.  I’ve grown my network.  Experienced people have told me that I’m working on an important problem.  And that validation means more than money.  So even if this particular business fails, I’ll try again.  But next time I’ll come back at a better angle.(Johannesburg, South Africa)


The crime around here is out of control.  It’s not even safe to walk down the street.  People are snatching bags and phones in broad daylight.  And it’s even more dangerous when the sun goes down.  It’s bad for business.  Our customers are being scared away.  The police aren’t doing anything, so we’re forced to take matters into our own hands.  Recently one of my customers had his car broken into.  While I was repairing his shoe, we heard glass shatter.  And we saw three guys running away with his laptop computer.  I chased one of them down, caught him by the shirt, and began to beat him.  I made him call his brothers and tell them he was about to be killed.  Sure enough, they brought back the laptop.  So I let him go.  But the police came to my store the next day, and told me that I shouldn’t have taken matters into my own hands.  They said next time I’d go to jail.  But what am I supposed to do?  Let my customers be robbed?  Soon we won’t have any customers left.   If police aren’t willing to stop the crime, we must do it ourselves.  (Johannesburg, South Africa)




(2/2) Mom tried her best to pay for flight school, but we kept running out of money.  I’d have to drop out for a few weeks, and since flying involves so much muscle memory, it would take me a while to get back on track.  So one day I bought a stack of magazines and newspapers.  I went through every page and cut out the advertisements.  Then I opened my pantry and wrote down every brand I could find.  I sent all of them letters, asking for help.  Almost everyone said ‘no.’  But I did receive an amount from a grocery store called Pick-n-Pay.  And Breitling sent me a brand new watch to raffle.  That was a huge break.  I sold six hundred raffle tickets.  Things were going so well.  African Pilot Magazine promoted the raffle for free.  A man from Australia bought 100 tickets.  But then I got a letter from the Lottery Board ordering me to end my raffle.  They said it was illegal.  I tried to explain that I was raising money for my education, but they didn’t care.  I was so disappointed.  I’d have to sit out another year of flight school.  But when I called everyone to explain the situation, nobody would accept their money back.  They told me to keep it!  It was enough to keep me in the air for months.  Then around Christmas that year, one of my mentors invited me to eat lunch at the airport.  When I stepped out of the car, everyone who had ever helped me was there.  They all started clapping.  And somebody handed me the phone.  A person on the other end said: ‘You’re live on 94.7, and we’re going to pay for your entire education!’  That was nearly four years ago.  I just got my license last week.  My plan is to fly for South African Airlines, but first I want to do some teaching.  I want to visit schools in black neighborhoods.  I want all the kids to see what an African female pilot looks like. (Johannesburg, South Africa)




 In tenth grade we were given an assignment to shadow a professional in the workplace.  I wanted to be a doctor at the time, so I emailed some hospitals but never got a response.  Luckily one of my aunts worked in the back office of South African Airlines, so she invited me to come with her to the airport.  I’d never flown on an airplane before.  I remember looking out the window at all those big ass planes coming in to land.  My aunt could see that I wasn’t interested in the paperwork, so she took me to the crew room.  I noticed all the pilots had incredible posture.  All their hats were lined up on a shelf.  Their jackets were all hanging in a row.  And that’s when the bug bit me.  I started spending all my holidays there.  The pilots were very nice to me.  I don’t think they’d ever seen an African female who was so enthusiastic about becoming a pilot.  They gave me advice and let me share their simulator time.  When I turned eighteen, I visited a flight school and picked up an application.  But the costs were too much.  My mom said we didn’t have the money, and told me to apply to normal universities.  She’d bring me applications, but I kept hiding them under my bed and telling her I got rejected.  I found an internship with a glider company, and used my stipend to buy my first pilot’s uniform.  I put one stripe on the sleeve—for students.  When I came home that night, I think she took me seriously for the first time.  She could see her daughter really wanted to fly.               (Johannesburg, South Africa)




I hung out in the streets a lot as a child.  But when I was seventeen, my parents died in a minibus crash.  It forced me to wake up and work for myself.  I got my first job as a cleaner.  The boss ordered me around for months.  But when it was time to pay me, he refused.  It left me in a desperate situation.  I was hungry.  I needed shelter.  So I got frustrated.  Some of my friends were stealing cars at the time.  They had a special key that could open doors.  At first I didn’t want to get involved, but they were living the life I wanted.  They had nice cars.  They could afford to buy drinks.  So when they asked me to come along one night, I agreed.  I told myself: ‘If I just go along once, I’ll be alright.’  We stole three cars that night.  Everyone got away but me.  When I saw the police lights in my rearview mirror, I started crying immediately.  I knew my life was over.  I spent a few years in prison.  That’s where I met a social worker named Ms. Palesa.  She was near retirement.  And when she heard my story, she invited me to come work at her house when I got released.  I painted for her.  I cleaned.  I worked in the garden.  Not only did she pay me, but she treated me like her child.  She bought me clothes.  She encouraged me to learn a trade.  Ms. Palesa only lived for a few more years, but she set me on the right path.  Every friend that I stole cars with that night is either dead or in jail.  But I work every day, and I never committed another crime.    (Johannesburg, South Africa)




I carried the burden of doing well from very young in life.  My father died early, so things were never very stable growing up.  I lived in about ten different places.  So from an early age, I decided that I was going to change the narrative.  I’d use my gifts and talents to create stability for my family.  I did well in academics.  I took leadership positions in school.  And when I was thirteen years old, I set a goal of becoming the President of South Africa.  I always felt destined to achieve something great.  But most of all, I wanted to be an amazing mother.  For the longest time everything was going to plan.  But last year I got pregnant.  We were both just beginning our careers.  We’d only been dating for a few months.  So we decided that we’d try again when the time was right, and I ended the pregnancy.  That’s when things began to fall apart.  The relationship came to an end.  I went through a long stretch of unemployment.  After a lifetime of accomplishing my goals, everything stopped working.  And I just hadn’t prepared myself for the emotional trauma of the abortion.  I convinced myself that I’d made the wrong decision.  I’d spent my whole life planning to be this amazing mother, but when it finally happened, I couldn’t show up for it.  I fell into a dark place.  And I’ve been struggling with it ever since.  But there’s a verse in Jeremiah that God knows us in the womb.  And whether you live for a day, or a month, or if you’re never born at all—every life has a purpose.  So maybe there was a purpose for that life.  It interrupted me.  It interrupted all the achievements and goals and forced me to examine my truth.  I’ve accepted that mistakes happen.  Curveballs happen.  And that’s where deep learning occurs.  On the child’s due date, my best friend took me on a spa day, and she told me something that helped.  She said: ‘Every mother has an instinct.  And you were just doing what was best for your child.  Maybe the pregnancy wasn’t ended.  It was just delayed until you’re ready.’(Johannesburg, South Africa)




I’m trying to give Mom a chance to do other things.  She wants to wash her hair and cook dinner, but the baby started crying.  So I brought him outside to see if it would help.  We’ve gone about thirty minutes without screaming.  We’re from Mozambique.  I originally came here to find work as a ceiling installer, but I brought my wife along when we found out she was pregnant.  The healthcare is much better in this country.  It’s too early for them to go back home because the child was born premature, but I’ll feel safer when they’re gone.  It’s too dangerous for them here.  South Africa is a good place to work, but they don’t like us being here so much.  The abuse mainly comes from other black people. They call us names.  They tell us to go home.  They attack us because they think we’re stealing their jobs.  But I’m just doing what I know.  They don’t understand what it’s like in my country.  You can’t survive with kids.  I’m just making the only choice I have.(Johannesburg, South Africa)




My younger sister passed away last year from an unexpected stroke.  So I’m raising both my daughter and my niece.  In our culture, it’s an automatic.  It just kicks in.  She belongs to me now.  I’m a single mother so it’s not easy.  There are definitely months when I add up income and expenses and the numbers don’t work.  And both of them are thirteen so their moods are all over the place.  Today is like this, and tomorrow is like that.  But God has given us favor as well.  We can afford to share an ice cream.  We have shelter.  We have food.  And after four months of no work, I just found a new management position.  So we’ve come a long way.  My niece is beginning to heal.  Her grades are improving at school.  She still speaks of her mother in the present tense, but there’s no more crying at night.  And I’ve grown a lot as well.  Because more than I want to acknowledge, the struggle has given me meaning.  This is my purpose.  I have a little family.  And we share what little we have.(Johannesburg, South Africa)




I have nothing to complain about.  I’m originally from Sudan.  I love it there.  So many happy memories.  I got so much love from my family because I was the youngest.  Since then I’ve lived in five different countries and I’ve enjoyed every single one.  I don’t have a partner, but I have plenty of great friends.  I don’t have children, but I’m a lovely uncle.  I don’t take any medicine.  I sleep well.  I can walk around.  I don’t know what to say.  Every time I think about it, I conclude that I’m happy.  I wake up smiling.  I lived in Germany for several years.  And they have these cameras along the highway that photograph you when you’re speeding.  I’ve got a huge collection of photos because I love to speed.  It’s always just me alone in my car.  And I’m smiling in every one of them.(Johannesburg, South Africa)


(7/7)  While I was being interviewed on the radio, Carl Wilkens was attempting an impossible mission.  He’d gone to military headquarters, and begged the minister to let us transport children out of the orphanage.   He wanted to move them to a protected church near the UN Mission.  His request was denied because the children were Tutsi.  But then a miracle happened.  As he was leaving the building, the Prime Minister herself arrived for a meeting.  Carl ran up to her and began to plead for the children.  She told him to slow down and explain himself clearly.  Then not only did she grant him permission, but she offered two buses for the transportation.  Carl called me and told me to wait at the church.  He said he would bring the children to me.  I thought it was a suicide mission.  There were four hundred people hiding in the orphanage.  Many of them were malnourished and looked like fugitives.  It was clear they had been hiding out for months.  Why would the killers allow them to escape on buses?  But it was our only chance, so I came to the church and waited.  Carl told me the buses would arrive at 6 PM.  But there was no sign of them by 8 PM.  It had gotten completely dark.  I was losing hope.  But suddenly I heard people screaming: ‘Tutsis!  Tutsis!  Tutsis!’  The buses came around the curve, and pedestrians were chasing behind them.  Inside I could see five people piled into every seat.  The kids were hanging out the window, screaming: ‘Papa! Papa! Papa!’  Finally all of us were out of danger.  We sheltered in the church until the genocide was over, but it didn’t take long.  Three days later the capital was liberated.  And all of the children had survived.(Kigali, Rwanda)Nearly 5,000 people have donated to our fundraiser to help Damas as he continues to help underprivileged and traumatized children.  We just hit our goal.  Thanks so much everybody, Damas is thrilled.  Setting aside the dollar amount, it would be amazing if we could double the amount of donors.  From this point on, I’ll add an additional $1 from the HONY Patreon to every donation given.  Small amounts can have outsized impacts in developing countries.  So even if it’s only a few dollars, please consider being counted:




(6/7)  After people were discovered in the orphanage ceiling, the militia determined that I was a collaborator.  They held a high level meeting and passed a resolution to kill me.  I barely slept that night.  And the next morning I awoke to my name being called out over the radio.  It was the voice of the Minister of Social Affairs, and he was ordering me to report immediately to the radio station.  I was paralyzed with fear.  I didn’t know what to do.  Should I go there and be killed?  Or wait for them to come kill me?  I felt like locking myself away, but my brother forced me to make a decision.  So I decided to drive to the radio station.  The station director met me at the entrance, and informed me that I’d be doing a live interview on the radio.  It would be broadcast across the nation.  He sat me down in front of a microphone.  My mind was racing.  My hands were trembling, but I did my best to not sound nervous.  He started drilling me with questions.  He asked why there were so many rumors about the orphanage.  He asked if I was keeping any secrets.  He asked how many people I was hiding.  I steadied my voice.  I told him: ‘If I was hiding people, would I have come here to meet you?  I have nothing but children.  They’re just babies.’  He looked at me for a long time.  Then he finally spoke into his microphone: ‘Attention, militia!  Damas Gisimba is no longer a suspect.’(Kigali, Rwanda)




(5/7)  One night I was walking the property when I heard the children screaming.  They were saying, ‘Papa! Papa! Papa!’  The screams were coming from inside the office.  When I ran to see what was happening, I found that a group of killers had entered the building.  There were about fifteen of them.  They were wearing camouflage and carrying flashlights.  They had already begun to pull young men out of the ceiling.  I tried to stop them, but I was hit with the butt of a rifle.  The blow fractured my arm.  I didn’t dare to speak after that.  The killers were already angry.  If I annoyed them any more, they might harm the children.  Six young men were dragged into the kitchen.  They were beaten with pieces of wood that had nails sticking out.  The killers were screaming: ‘Where are the others?  Where are the others?’  At first the young men were begging for their lives, but their voices grew weak from loss of blood.  The children heard everything and kept trying to see what was happening.  I kept trying to chase them out of the room.  I yelled at them to go back to bed.  Eventually the young men were taken out to the bushes.  All night they were tortured.  I stood in the dark and listened to their voices.  We were hiding hundreds of people at that point.  I was sure they’d give everyone else away.  But they never spoke.  Their wives and family members were hiding in the ceiling, so they stayed silent until their deaths.  They saved all of us.  After the genocide, I built this memorial in their honor.        (Kigali, Rwanda)


(4/7) The militias would usually grow tired of killing people by 3 PM, and they would rest for the day.  That’s when I’d take people out of the ceiling to stretch their legs.  I’d circle the property.  I’d walk to a nearby pit where they threw dead bodies.  I’d listen closely to see if anyone was still alive, and I’d bring any survivors inside the orphanage.  During this time I lost all my emotions and feelings.  I became numb.  It seemed like any moment the militias would kill us, or a bomb would accidentally hit the orphanage.  And honestly I was ready for death.  It seemed like it would be the best thing for me.  My wife was also feeling hopeless.  We saw each other for just a few minutes every night.  She was busy trying to keep the babies alive.  She’d lost so much weight.  Her breast milk was gone.  And the children were barely alive.  They’d lost all of their muscle.  They were just skin and bones.  And we were almost out of food so I could no longer bribe the killers.  One day two men came in a truck asking for one of my employees by name.  They pretended that they had a child with them that needed medical treatment.  When she walked out to see the child, they pushed her into the truck and drove away.  Thankfully I was able to pull a baby out of her arms.  They killed her just a few meters from here, but it was too dangerous to recover her body until after the genocide.(Kigali, Rwanda)




(3/7)  Our most desperate problem was water.  The government had cut off our supply.  And we were packed so densely that the heat was unbearable.  Whenever we brought out jugs of water, one hundred liters would be consumed in less than a minute.  After two weeks we’d run out completely.  Then one morning I saw a car coming up the road.  It had the markings of the Adventist Church.  Out stepped a white man with a bulletproof vest.  His name was Carl Wilkens.  And he was the only American who had remained behind in Rwanda.  ‘I heard about you,’ he said.  ‘And I’ve come to encourage you.’  I took him around the property.  I showed him all the people I was hiding.  He could see that I was a nervous wreck.  So he began to pray with me.  He told me: ‘There is no way a man can survive this.  But God will help us through.’  I told Carl that we desperately needed water.  Without water we could not even cook our food.  So he promised me that he would try to help.  After that Carl would drive to the orphanage each week.  He’d bring water and milk for the kids.  And to this day, I don’t understand where he got it.  All of the stores were closed.  Carl was the only thing keeping us alive.  Every week I was convinced that he would be killed on the journey.  The roads were so dangerous.  People would shoot out his tires.  But every week he showed up with more water.(Kigali, Rwanda)




(2/7)  Over the next few days, the situation grew worse.  Bombs were being dropped all around us.  The streets had grown very loud.  The killers would chant and scream while they chased people.  All of the children were terrified.  We couldn’t hide the truth from them because they knew what was going on.  Some of the children who were arriving from the outside had witnessed their parents being killed.  Even the babies knew how to say: ‘Don’t kill me.  I’m not a Tutsi.’  The adolescent boys were especially vulnerable.  We hid them in the ceiling.  We had no fence around the orphanage back then, so there was nothing to protect us.  Just a line of trees.  Every day the militias would come looking for targets.  I'd meet them here at the entrance and try to bribe them with food.  I’d tell them: ‘I know your families are hungry.  Take this and go away.’  Luckily I had a shipping container full of porridge, corn, beans, and biscuits.  But word spread quickly.  The killers told each other: ‘If you tell Damas that you are going to kill his children, he will give you food.’  So more of them began to come.  And their demands grew larger.  So our food supply ran very low. And the people kept coming.  Eventually 400 people were being hidden in the orphanage.  We were like sardines in a can.  We had no food. No water.  No electricity.  No life.          (Kigali, Rwanda)




(1/7)  I inherited this orphanage from my father.  I was in my twenties at the time.  I had other dreams for my life, but the responsibility fell on me.  When my father passed away, he begged me: ‘Damas, please don’t abandon the children.’  So I promised him that I never would.  When the genocide began in 1994, I’d been managing the orphanage for several years.  I was thirty-three.  I was newly married.  I had a one-year-old child at home.  When I heard news of the president’s assassination, I immediately ran to comfort the children.  Gunfire had begun to enter the air.  We were housing about 65 children at the time.  Many of them were Tutsis.  I told the staff that nobody was allowed to leave the orphanage.  As the day passed, more and more people began arriving.  I had a reputation in the community for helping people.  So everyone came to me for shelter.  Their neighbors had turned against them.  Many of them were being chased by killers.  I knew that the penalty for sheltering Tutsis was death, but I didn’t have the heart to turn them away.  So I invited everyone inside.  I thought: ‘We have institutions in this country.  The United Nations is here.  The danger will be over soon.’(Kigali, Rwanda)




It might not seem possible for a nation to heal from genocide so quickly.  And some might think that our reconciliation is surface level.  But it runs deeper than that.  If we were truly a nation playing ‘make believe,’ our progress would have been impossible.  Rwanda’s per capita GDP has grown nearly 500% since the genocide.  And I understand that economics might seem like a dry subject, but you must consider what it represents.  It represents Rwandans working together.  And trading together.  And trusting each other.  It represents a consensus that our best future is a shared one.  Without true reconciliation, we’d have never come this far.  Do tribes still exist in Rwanda?  Of course.  There will always be divisions between us.  I can’t ask people to forget about these things.  But I tell them: ‘Consider the ways that we are a single tribe.  We all speak one language.  We all have the same culture, and dances, and behaviors.  So be proud of who you are.  But also be proud of being Rwandan.  Because that is something all of us are.(Kigali, Rwanda)




There was a huge puzzle after the genocide.  How do you pursue justice when the crime is so great?  You can’t lose one million people in one hundred days without an equal number of perpetrators.  But we also can’t imprison an entire nation.  So forgiveness was the only path forward. Survivors were asked to forgive and forget.  The death penalty was abolished.  We focused our justice on the organizers of the genocide.  Hundreds of thousands of perpetrators were rehabilitated and released back into their communities.  These decisions were agonizing.  I constantly questioned myself.  But each time I decided that Rwanda’s future was more important than justice.  It was a huge burden to place on the survivors.  And perhaps the burden was too great.  One day during a memorial service, I was approached by a survivor.  He was very emotional. ‘Why are you asking us to forgive?’ he asked me.  ‘Haven’t we suffered enough?  We weren’t the cause of this problem.  Why must we provide the solution?’  These were very challenging questions.  So I paused for a long time.  Then I told him: ‘I’m very sorry.  You are correct.  I am asking too much of you.  But I don’t know what to ask the perpetrators.  ‘Sorry’ won’t bring back any lives.  Only forgiveness can heal this nation.  The burden rests with the survivors because they are the only ones with something to give.’(Kigali, Rwanda)




(9/9)  This is a picture of my father before the genocide.  He’s surrounded by his Hutu friends.  They’re sharing beer.  They’re talking.  They always viewed him as a good person.  They’d even come to our home and flatter us.  They’d tell my sisters and me how good of children we were.  And that one day we’d marry their sons.  Many of these men would later help kill my family.  So how am I supposed to trust anyone?  Before the genocide, there were doctors taking care of their patients. Priests were taking care of their followers.  Neighbors were taking care of each other.  But none of that stopped them from killing each other.  And now we’re being asked to forgive.  Because our president tells us that reconciliation is the only path forward as a nation.  And I know that he’s right.  So I’m trying my best.  I’m spending time with Hutu people.  I even found two Hutu elders to mentor my son.  I want him to see that Hutus have good hearts.  My son even calls them ‘Grandpa.’  So I understand the need for reconciliation.  And I’m trying.  Christianity has helped me a great deal.  But true forgiveness is impossible.  My entire family was murdered.  How can I possibly forgive on behalf of those who can no longer speak for themselves?  It’s just not possible.  But I will certainly pretend.  Because I’ve seen where vengeance leads. (Butare, Rwanda)




(8/9) There were twelve people in my family before the genocide.  I’m the only one who survived.  We recovered eight of the bodies.  And we buried the bones we were able to find.  I didn’t trust anyone after the genocide.  Even when I was rescued by the Rwandan Patriotic Front, I wouldn’t take the food I was given.  I thought it might be poisoned.  So I’d eat raw food from the fields.  I was losing so much weight but I didn’t care.  People looked at me like I was a statue.  They assumed my emotions were frozen.  They knew my family was dead, and didn’t want to ask me questions.  So I held it all in for decades.  Who could I talk to anyway?  In a nation of one million victims, how do I begin to tell my story?  There’s been too much tragedy for everyone.  Some people lost their arms and legs.  Other people were raped and given HIV.  What makes my story worth telling?  Who am I?  Why should I ask for sympathy?  And who would I even ask?  So I never asked anyone.  I’ve never asked anyone for a thing.  I don’t want anyone to take care of me.  I don’t want people to celebrate my birthday.  Or cook for me.  Or tell me sweet words.  I’m fine with giving love.  But I can’t accept it.  Because I don’t want anything that can ever be taken away.(Butare, Rwanda)




(7/9)  I woke up to find that I’d been discovered by a soldier.  He dragged me to my feet and led me down the street to this alleyway.  He pointed his gun at me, and told me to say goodbye to my life.  At that point I felt ready to die.  But that’s when Mary came running out of her house.  She fell at the soldier’s feet and began pleading with him.  ‘Leave this girl for me,’ she said.  ‘You’ve killed her entire family.  Just leave this one for me.  God sent her to me.’  She offered the soldier all of her money.  She told him:  ‘When the war is over, you can come back and take this girl for a wife.’  And that’s what finally convinced him.  He handed me over.  Mary took me inside and cooked me food.  She gave me a change of clothes.  She tried to wash my hair, but it was too thick, so she cut it all off.  Then she hid me in the bushes behind her house.  I stayed there for weeks.  Every night Mary would bring me porridge and water.  She gave me a little radio so I could follow the news reports.  Each day the rebels were getting closer to our town.  Mary would encourage me.  She’d tell me that it would all be over soon.  And that I’d be rescued.  She promised me that I’d survive.  And Mary was right.  I did survive, because of her.(Butare, Rwanda)




(6/9)  The next morning, I heard people calling my name and I decided to show myself.  I was too exhausted to resist.  They told me there had been a general pardon for women and children.  And all of us who believed the rumor were taken to this place, the house of a Tutsi widow.  I found my mother and sisters when I arrived.  They were still alive, but were so weak and depressed that they could barely move.  We stayed in this house for two weeks.  There were sixteen of us here.  Then one night a soldier came and told us that we were scheduled to be executed.  My mother urged my younger sisters to run away, but none of them wanted to leave her side.  I begged Francine to escape with me.  She was the oldest.  We had a chance.  But she was too tired.  She’d been raped a few days earlier.  She told me she was ready for death.  Eighty soldiers came to the house that night.  They were carrying a list with our names.  They began grabbing people.  During the struggle, I jumped out the window and hid in a tree.  My mother was forty-eight years old.  Francine was sixteen.  Olivia was fourteen.  Noella was eleven.  Augtavienne was seven.  Claudette was four.  And Bebe was almost two.  I listened to their screams until I fainted.(Butare, Rwanda)


(5/9)  On the day I watched my father die, this is the skirt I was wearing.  I was only twenty-one years old.  I completely lost my will to live.  I walked down the street like a zombie.  I came to this house.  The owner wasn’t home at the time because she was busy looting my family’s home.  I tried to hide under her bed, but there was another Tutsi man there.  He began yelling at me to leave.  ‘It’s too small,’ he said.  ‘You’ll get us both killed.’  So I ran outside to jump in the toilet, but the killers were already at the door.  They dragged the man out from under the bed and killed him before my eyes.  They were about to kill me too, but the team leader said he had ‘other plans for me.’  And everyone listened to him because he had a gun.  He started leading me toward a plantation.  He told me to comply or he’d kill me.  He made me lie down on the ground.  He unbuttoned his shirt, lay down next to me, and tried to spread my legs.  So I grabbed his balls and squeezed as hard as I could.  He started trying to punch me.  So I squeezed them harder and twisted.  He kept writhing around but I didn’t let go until he fainted.  Then I began running through the dark.  I couldn’t see a thing.  I fell into a latrine full of shit, and I remained there all night because I was too tired to move. (Butare, Rwanda)




(4/9)  Our family was a top target because my father was so prominent.  So when the genocide officially commenced, the killing squads came straight to our home.  One of our neighbors peeled away from the group and ran ahead to warn us.  He came down our street, screaming at the top of his lungs:  ‘Run away!’ They are coming to kill you!’  My mother immediately dropped to her knees and started to pray.  My father yanked her off the ground.  He told us all to get out.  Everyone ran in different directions.  I don’t know why we split up, but there was gunfire and screaming all around.  I followed my mother and sisters to a nearby plantation.  The baby was with us.  We stayed there for four days.  But I didn’t feel comfortable.  All around I could hear people hunting for us.  They were calling our names.  We needed to find a new place.  I begged my mother and sisters to run away with me, but they were too depressed.  They didn’t have the energy to move.  So I went alone and returned to our house.  I was looking for our father.  I crouched down in a nearby bush and waited for him to return.  Early in the morning a crowd of people came marching over the hill.  My father was in the center.  He was so tall that I could see his face.  They marched him to this very spot, because he’d asked to be killed at his own home.  I could see everything from the bush.  I closed my eyes.  I said: ‘Please God, please change this man.  Please make it a different person.’  But when I opened my eyes—it was still his face.  I saw everything.  And the whole time I was trying to imagine it wasn’t him.  But when I opened my eyes, it was always him.  They finished him off with machetes.  When they finally left, I walked over to look at his body.  He was seconds away from death.  But he was still moving his head back and forth.       (Butare, Rwanda)




(3/9)  If you are being hunted, this bush is one of the best places to hide.  Every genocide survivor in Rwanda can tell you about this type of bush.  It’s full of thorns.  But if you crawl on your stomach, you can get inside.  And if you can get inside, you can finally take a rest.  The best hiding places are always the most dangerous ones.  Farms were no good.  Everyone who tried to hide on a farm was discovered.  Toilets were no good either.  Because that’s where they dumped the bodies.  You wanted to find a place where the killers were afraid to go.  The higher the risk, the less chance of getting caught.  Swamps were one of the most popular choices because there were so many ways to die in there.  It was easy to get stuck in the mud and drown.  Most of us couldn’t swim.  Or the mosquitos could give you malaria.  Or you could be killed by a single snakebite.  But the worst were the crocodiles.  I’d say fifty percent of the people who hid in the swamps were eaten by crocodiles.  My brother tried hiding in a swamp.  And he actually survived all these things.  He made it all the way to the border with Burundi.  But then a helicopter dropped fuel from above and set his swamp on fire.           (Butare, Rwanda)




(2/9)   When the presidential plane was shot down, people began to gossip about the impending genocide.  The streets were empty.  Nobody was travelling long distances.  We started to hear tales of violence.  Relatives from other regions would arrive on our doorstep with horror stories.  My father came home one day and told us about a Tutsi janitor at the university.  He cleaned clothes for the students.  That day he’d been tortured to death with his own iron.  I grew very depressed during this period.  I wanted to be alone all the time.  Some nights my family would sleep in a nearby church for safety, but I’d remain in the house alone.  I could feel something terrible in the air.  Then on April 21st, the genocide officially came to our town.  The militia gathered up Tutsi pedestrians in the city center.  They brought them to this stadium.  There were 200 people in all.  They put them in lines.  Then they opened the doors and invited the public to fill the seats.  The governor was forced to sit in the front row.  He had mixed blood and was against the genocide.  After the last person was executed, they brought the governor down and killed him too.  His body was paraded through the streets.  The killers were screaming into an intercom: ‘We’ve killed the governor!  Anything is possible!  Now let the hunt begin.’        (Butare, Rwanda)




(1/9)   My father was well respected in the community.  He was a university lecturer and a choir member.  But he was always working, so my mother was primarily the one who raised us.  Her name was Consolee.  She had this deep sorrow about her.  She was an orphan because her parents had been killed in the 1963 genocide.  Whenever we asked her to tell the story of our grandparents, she’d just say: ‘Give it time.  Soon you’ll see for yourself.’  I tried to help her as much as I could.  The eldest daughter acts like a mother in our culture, so I raised my six younger sisters.  They thought I was too strict.  They were always saying that I behaved like a nun.  But they looked up to me too.  And they loved me.  Occasionally I’d help to keep them out of trouble.  When my sister Francine cut her foot on a bottle, she was terrified to tell our mother because she wasn’t supposed to be barefoot.  I helped her conceal the crime by cutting a hole in the bottom of her shoe.  At night all my sisters would pile into my bed.  They’d beg me to tell them stories.  And I always did, until they fell asleep, and I’d carry them into their beds one by one.  The youngest was a boy.  He always took the longest because I had to rock him to sleep.  His name was Edmond Richard, but we called him ‘Bebe.’  He was was 1.5 years old when the genocide began.(Butare, Rwanda)




(6/6)  I was given the opportunity to visit Rwanda as part of my internship with the US Senate.  I was accompanying an important delegation.  But they must have thought I was crazy, because when we arrived in Rwanda, I began speaking to people in the streets.  I was convinced that everyone looked like me.  I wanted to find members of my family.  I wanted to see my old school.  I wanted to find my old house.  But all I could remember was the location of my grandmother’s house because it had been so close to the airport.  So that’s where we went.  We knocked on the door.  I didn’t reveal my identity.  When I asked the current resident if he knew about me, he told me that I had been killed.  But then he said that some of my family was still alive.  He told us that my sister was working at a nearby market.  So we decided to drive there.  The sun was going down.  At this point I was sure that I’d lost my mind.  Because we drove by a playground, and I saw a little boy that looked exactly like me.  I even took his photo.  I had no idea that he was my brother.  When we arrived at the market, it was almost completely dark.  But I saw my sister.  And she saw me.  She recognized me immediately because of the scar on my forehead.  Our brother had given me this scar when we were toddlers.  He didn’t survive the genocide.  When my sister saw me, we embraced.  We both started crying.  And she told me everything that happened while I was gone.  And I won’t share the details, because those aren’t my stories to tell.  But she gave me the biggest news of all.  I remember picking up the phone, and immediately calling Anne Peterson.  I told her: ‘Mom, you’re not going to believe this.  But I just found my mother.’(Kigali, Rwanda)———————————————–  If you are wondering why Nyanja is back in Rwanda, it’s because she has founded an organization called Little Hills, which aims to improve health services for children in Rwanda.  Her ultimate goal is to build a children’s hospital.  She’s created a small fundraiser, which I’ve kicked off with a $5,000 donation from the HONY Patreon.  If you’d like to empower Nyanja in the next phase of her life, and help improve healthcare for children in Rwanda, you may do so here:




(5/6)  During high school I got a lot of counseling.  I began to process what had happened to me.  I remember in tenth grade we had an English teacher who used to tell us to look in the mirror every morning and say: ‘I’m good and I’m beautiful.’  But I would always add: ‘And I’m extremely lucky.’  I’d look at myself closely and try to recognize my mother.  I started reading a lot of books.  One of them was called Anne of Green Gables, about an orphan girl who was different.  I decided that I was going to be like Anne and not let my bad luck ruin my life.  I went to college at Washington State.  I got an internship to work in the US Senate.  I even dreamed about one day becoming Secretary General of the United Nations.  But it was during this time that I also began to meet other people who’d escaped from Rwanda.  I listened to their stories.  And I began to realize the full context of what happened during the genocide.  I read about it obsessively.  I learned that the world had abandoned Rwanda.  The United Nations may have saved me, but they failed everyone else.  One million people were left to die.  At first I felt angry.  Then the anger turned into guilt.  Why had I survived?  For the longest time I didn’t even want to tell my story.  Because I didn’t want to give the United Nations any credit.  I didn’t want my story being used to put a positive spin on the situation.  I felt confused and conflicted.  But then at the age of twenty-one, I was given an opportunity to return to Rwanda.(Kigali, Rwanda)


(4/6)  After a year we were chosen for resettlement in the United States.  As soon as we arrived, I was separated from my grandmother.  She was put in a nursing home, and two months later she passed away.  It was the first time I’d cried since I left Rwanda.  She was all I had left.  I lived with my uncle for awhile but he was very abusive.  He treated me like a maid.  So I was removed from the home and put into foster care in Boise, Idaho.  But that was also a bad situation.  I was on the verge of running away.  And I’m pretty sure my social worker informed my school.   Because my art teacher started asking me about my plans.  Her name was Anne Peterson.  She was one of those teachers that you could talk to about anything.  So I answered all her questions.  I told her my story.  And I started bragging about my plan to take care of myself.  I think she decided: ‘Absolutely not.’  Because that’s when she chose to become my Mom.  Oh my God, it was amazing.  Ms. Peterson lived in a big, beautiful house.  I was the only child there.  I had my own room.  It was safe.  I didn’t have to worry about surviving.  Mom took care of everything.  She would wake me up to go to school every day.  She always made sure I had lunch.  She took me out to eat at restaurants.  It was amazing.  I was already fifteen years old.  But for the first time in years, I felt like a kid. (Kigali, Rwanda)


(3/6)  The plane took us to a refugee camp in Nairobi, Kenya.  It would be our home for the next year.  When I finally learned what was going on, I became one hundred percent convinced that my mother had been killed.  Other refugees were telling me stories.  Many of them had lost their entire families.  My uncle told me that everyone in our neighborhood had been captured, and he was almost positive that my mother was dead.  Surely if my mother was alive, she would have come for me.  My grandmother’s house was not far from our home.  So I accepted the truth.  But I didn’t have much time to think about it.  Because we had to fight for survival in the refugee camp.  My grandmother was paralyzed and couldn’t chew hard food.  So I’d spend my days trying to find her things to eat.  I’d negotiate with people for their eggs and bananas.  I spent the rest of my time by her side.  She couldn’t move so I had to keep the flies away.  But it wasn’t all bad.  I made friends with a few of the other kids in camp.  And I remember one time we stole money from the adults.  We snuck out of the camp and bought French fries from a roadside shop.  They were horrible quality.  They came in a little plastic bag.  But at the time I remember thinking they were the best thing I’d ever tasted.  (Kigali, Rwanda)




(2/6)  We stayed in the house for two nights.  On the third morning a neighbor warned us that the killing groups were coming our way, so we decided to leave without packing anything.  We were fortunate because my grandmother lived right next to the airport.  Her house backed right up to the airstrip, and it was one of the few places in the city still under the protection of the United Nations.  So my uncle cut a hole in the fence, and we began running toward some old trucks.  We couldn’t run very fast because we were pushing my grandmother in her wheelchair.  On the way I lost one of my yellow flip-flops.  I remember thinking: ‘My mother is going to kill me when I see her again.’  So I tried to turn back, but the adults screamed at me to keep running.  Finally we reached one of the old trucks and climbed beneath it.  We stayed under that truck for a week.  The UN knew we were there, but they left us alone.  Occasionally I’d run out and ask the soldiers for food.  There was one soldier in particular who always gave me biscuits and sardines.  He felt sorry for me because I was so small.  And when the UN finally evacuated, he came and got us.  They put us in the back of a cargo plane with some containers.  Nobody explained anything to me.  I was cold.  I was hungry.  I was tired.  All I wanted to do was go home and see my mother. (Kigali, Rwanda)


(1/6)  I was only ten years old at the time so I don’t remember much.  Nobody explains things to you when you’re a child.  I was never told that I was different.  Or that some people wanted to kill us.  My mother basically raised me by herself, but it wasn’t an unhappy childhood.  I do remember feeling afraid sometimes.  I remember occasionally being kept home from school.  And I remember not being allowed to play freely in the streets.  But these things were never fully explained to me.  When the genocide began, I was visiting my grandmother.  It was a school holiday.  I’d made good grades that semester, so my mother had bought me a pair of yellow flip-flops as a reward.  I was obsessed with them.  I remember waking up that morning and realizing something strange was going on.  I could hear gunshots outside and people screaming.  My grandmother told me to stay inside the house.  She’d recently had a stroke and was confined to a wheelchair, so it was just me and her alone in the room.  Eventually I got bored and decided to sneak outside to see what was happening.  All the streets were empty except for young boys with machetes.  That’s when my uncle came over, and I overheard him telling one of the maids that it was extremely dangerous outside.  He said that all of us might be killed.(Kigali, Rwanda)


(3/3)  When I woke up, I found myself lying alongside a very deep pit.  It was full of bodies.  My stepfather was standing over me.  Somehow he had learned about the attack, and had come with his bodyguards to rescue me.  He picked me off the ground.  I was barely conscious.  When we returned home, my stepfather called the government to complain about what had happened.  But he was told to watch his back.  He was told that our family was no longer under protection.  My mother begged me stop helping people.  She told my bodyguards to not let me leave the house.  But by that time the Rwandan Patriotic Front was getting very close to our village.  The fighting grew very intense.  My family packed everything and fled toward the border with Congo.  Four of my sisters were killed on the journey.   I remained behind with the seventy people.  Our bodyguards were gone.  We were helpless.  We had no guns.  We just prayed the rebels would liberate us as soon as possible.  I knew the killing groups would be coming to my home, so I gathered all the remaining biscuits and water.  I took everyone to the house of someone who had already been murdered.  It seemed like the safest place to be.  I closed them inside and padlocked the door.  Then I finally ran off to reunite with my family.  I learned later that everyone in that house was rescued.  Only four of the seventy lost their lives.  And almost all of them are still alive today.  We remain friends.  We’re still neighbors.  They bring me gifts.  I see them in the streets almost every day, and whenever we meet, they show me their love.    (Kigali, Rwanda)




(2/3)  The killings were being encouraged by the national radio station.  Every day they would announce how many people had been killed.  They’d announce the location of the killings.  And they’d give thanks to those who were doing the killing.  One morning I was sitting in my bedroom, and I heard an announcement on the radio: ‘Everyone is being killed in Gatobotobo except for those under the protection of the Felix family.’  I knew then that we were in danger.  Not long after the announcement, the Minister of Internal Security came to our village for a meeting.  It took place on a hill overlooking our property.  He could see everything that was happening in our compound.  When he left the meeting, his convoy began driving toward our home.  The minister was riding in a truck full of armed soldiers.  When he passed by me in the street, the truck slammed on the brakes.  All my bodyguards ran away and I was left completely alone.  My neighbors began to gather around.  They were laughing and applauding and saying, ‘This is the guy who was stopping the killings.’  The minister walked over to me.  He pushed me on the ground and leaned over my body.  He was covered with sweat.  His eyes were wide.  There was dried spit on the edges of his lips.  He had the face of the devil.  He took off his belt and began beating me until I lost consciousness.(Kigali, Rwanda)


(1/3)  The genocide was an opportunity to get rich.  Murdering people was the quickest way to accumulate wealth.  We were given permission from the government to seize the property of anyone we killed.  We were told it was our god given right.  But I never felt the temptation.  My family owned a very big supermarket.  I had my own car.  When the killings began in 1994, I had a scholarship to study in Greece and I was just waiting to begin university.  My stepfather was Vice President of our region, so we had four bodyguards in the house.  These guys were highly trained with automatic weapons.  They became good friends of mine.  I’d take them to the bar every night.  I’d drive them around and buy them anything they wanted.  They were also good human beings.  One night over drinks we discussed the genocide, and all of us decided: ‘We’re going to put an end to this in our neighborhood.’  The next morning I woke up to my neighbor screaming.  I looked out the window and saw that he’d been surrounded by a mob with machetes, and was bleeding badly from the head.  I’d been friends with him since childhood.  So I sent my bodyguards to save him.  The machetes were no match for our guns.  Word spread quickly after that.  Tutsi families came to our compound seeking refuge.  I took long walks with my bodyguards every morning, looking for people to save.  We drove to surrounding farms and searched the fields for survivors.  At one point we had seventy people under our protection.  Nobody challenged us.  I was young and cocky.  I thought we were untouchable.(Kigali, Rwanda)




My father was a talented engineer.  He could fix any type of truck, and he used his income to help the poor.  Our neighbors’ school fees and hospital bills were always paid.  My mother would bring needy people to our table, and order us to give them the best portions of meat.  She’d explain that these people rarely had the chance to eat well.  Both my parents were very religious.  But they always taught us: ‘Humanity first.  Everything else comes after.’  When the genocide began, they invited our Tutsi neighbors to hide in our house.  There were seven of them.  Some lived under the beds.  Others lived in the cupboards.  I was a teenager back then and my job was to change the waste buckets.  It was a miserable existence, and it went on for months.  But we prayed with them.  We tried to give them hope.  We told them that God was in control.  At night we’d give them Muslim dress so they could go in the backyard and get fresh air.  Our neighbors suspected us because our curtains were always closed.  We never slept because we knew the penalty for hiding Tutsis was death.  But all seven people in our house survived.  Unfortunately my mother and father died a few years ago, so I must tell their story for them.  Their names were Mukamunosi Adha and Gasano Juma.  They saved seven lives.  And they valued love and humanity more than anything.  (Kigali, Rwanda)




(4/4)  I managed to escape that day, but things had grown desperate.  In the end there were two thousand of us trying to survive.  We’d begun to run out of food.  The militia was losing on the battlefield and began to grow frustrated.  Two days before our rescue, they came to the church for a final big attack.   They were going in every room.  They were finding everyone.  Some of the mothers were lying on mattresses over their sons, trying to hide them.  But it was no use.  I’d managed to climb into the ceiling.  I’d poked holes in the exterior wall so I could breathe.  Through those holes I could see everything that was happening outside.  They tied every boy up, two-by-two.  They brought them to this exact spot and began to beat them.  Their mothers were screaming and crying from inside the building.  One group of boys was pulled to the center.  These were my friends.  We played soccer together.  We studied together.  Sebajura.  Galindo.  Muyoboke. Jean Bosco, he was a believer.  They walked up to Jean Bosco and kicked him in the head.  They told him: ‘We know you are a friend of Masengo. Tell us where he is.’  And Jean Bosco knew.  He knew where I was.  He’d seen me climb into the ceiling.  But he didn’t say a word.  So they beat him harder.  They kept saying: ‘Tell us, tell us, tell us.’  But he kept silent.  He kept silent until his last breath.  And then they shot him.  Jean Bosco died because of me.  He died for me.  Seventy-two young men died that day.  The crowd screamed the entire time.  But that night when I finally climbed down from the ceiling, everyone was silent.  Nobody was saying a word.(Kigali, Rwanda)




  One morning the killers brought a list of names, and gathered everyone together.  They told us to sit on the floor.  They stepped through the crowd and began reading out the names.  My name was called out, but it was misspelled by one letter.  They kept shouting ‘Marengo’ instead of ‘Masengo.’  But I knew it was me they were looking for.  They told the crowd: ‘If you give up these people, we won’t come back to kill your sons and daughters.’  But nobody spoke.  The killers were examining one person at a time.  I sat with my head between my knees.  Back then I had the face of a girl, so I tried to cover myself with fabric.  Some of the killers were from my neighborhood.  I knew that when they got around to me, I would be recognized.  So I slipped out and ran toward a banana plantation.  One of them spotted me and alerted the others.  I jumped over a brick fence and dove into the tallest grasses I could find.  Soon I heard footsteps.  They were walking all around me.  I remember one of them saying: ‘Cockroaches are so mysterious.  How are they able to disappear?’  He got so frustrated that he hacked at a banana tree with his machete.  The leaves fell on my legs.  I was lying with my cheek on the dirt.  I remember the exact time because my watch was next to my face.  It was 12:22 PM.  I remember thinking: ‘This is the time I’m going to die.    (Kigali, Rwanda)


(2/4)  The conditions were tolerable at first.  We were eating twice a day.  We could take showers.  But people kept pouring into the church compound.  Eventually there were two thousand of us.  All the young men began sleeping in the ceiling.  Women and children slept on the floor.  Beds were given to the elderly.  All of the priests abandoned us except for one.  His name was Celestin Hakizimana, and he stayed with us until the very end.  Every day he’d put on his gown, and stand right here at the gate.  When the killers arrived, he would tell them: ‘We only have innocents here.  Go find the enemy on the battlefield.’  If they refused to leave, he would take them to the church office and bribe them with money.  Once the killers tried to lure him from the compound by saying his father was dead, and that he was needed at the funeral.  But he told them: ‘Please send my blessings.’  He wouldn’t abandon us.  If any survivors knew the location of their family, Father Celestin would do his best to find them. He would put on his gown and drive out into the world.  One night he came back bloodied and beaten.  He had been stopped at a roadblock, laid down in the road, and kicked in the street.  But the next day he put on his gown once more, and drove out into the world.  He couldn’t always keep the killers out.  Some days they’d come with lists of people to kill.  And there was nothing he could do. He’d do his best to fool them by creating a registry of fake names.  But then they would choose people randomly.  They’d drag out twenty people at a time and bring them to their death.  Nothing could be done.        (Kigali, Rwanda)


  When we heard the president had been killed, I ran into the street with my friends.  We wanted to see what was happening.  Immediately two men came running after us with guns.  They were pointing at us and screaming: ‘You killed the president!’  All of us ran in different directions.  I ducked into a neighbor’s house and climbed into the ceiling, but my shoes fell off and landed on the bed.  The men discovered my shoes and they climbed into the ceiling after me.  Luckily I squeezed into a place they could not fit.  But when they finally left, the owner of the house told me I had to find another place.  He told me that people were hiding at the church of St. Paul, and that I should go there.  I left at 3 AM.  I walked through the forest.  I could hear gunfire and screaming in the dark.  The church was less than a kilometer away but the journey took me two hours.  When I finally arrived, I discovered hundreds of other survivors.  We were housed in the building behind me.  Every hour more people would arrive.  Each time a newcomer came through the front door, we would rush to them for news.  I learned that my brothers had been killed.  They had run to a nearby church, but the pastor opened its doors to the killers.  Another person told me that my mother had been killed.  She’d taken refuge in a nuns’ compound.  She was randomly chosen for death and shot in the head at 10 AM.  She lived until 5 pm.  But by the time I heard this, I couldn’t even cry.  I was completely numb.  I was just waiting to die myself.(Kigali, Rwanda)


(3/3) The killers formed a search party the next morning.  They gathered at the top of the hill.  We could see them coming toward us, searching every house along the way, and pulling out more people to join the hunt.  The mob was growing very big.  I knew that the end was upon us.  But the fighting was very intense that day.  Rockets were flying over our head, and some of them began landing on the hill.  One landed so close to the search party that they scattered in different directions.  I pulled everyone out of the hiding place and moved them to the forest behind our house.  Every night I’d wait until the streets were empty, and I’d bring them food.  For two weeks it went on like this.  I rationed what little we had. I lost all my weight because I was too scared to eat.  My breasts completely disappeared.  I didn’t even feel like a woman anymore.  I’d nearly given up on life.  Every morning I’d pray for the day to finish.  And every night I’d pray for the morning to come.  My husband wanted us to escape.  The only reason we remained in Kigali was to feed those people.  And after three weeks the capital finally fell.  The Rwandan Patriotic Front was advancing, and the Hutu boarded busses to flee the city.  Even the people who were hiding told me to abandon them.  So I gave them each a final ration of food and escaped.  But all of the people hiding on this property were rescued.  And every single one of them is alive today.(Kigali, Rwanda)




(2/3)  It was too dangerous to hide the man in the house.  So I brought him to this small room in the back, which we sometimes rented to tenants.  I pushed him inside and locked the door.  When I was opening our shop the next morning, another man came running to me for help.  He was limping badly.  He was out of breath and drenched in sweat.  I recognized him as a prominent Tutsi businessman.  ‘Save my life!’ he screamed.  ‘They are chasing me!’  So I quickly pulled him to the back of the house and locked him in this same room.  A few minutes later the killers arrived.  They searched all over the main house, but never checked the back room.  Over the next few days, six more people came looking for help.  We hid them all.  But my neighbors had been spying on us.  They reported everything.  And one night the killers showed up with guns.  When they knocked on the door, my husband started shivering and couldn’t stand up.  I told him: ‘You’re the man of the house. You must stand firm and face them.’  But he couldn’t move.  So I went to the door myself.  The killers were standing there with a list of the people hiding in our house. ‘Where are these cockroaches?’ they said.  I tried to tell them that we had no cockroaches, but they pushed past me and started searching.  They beat my husband until he was unable to speak.  I offered them all the money we had, and only then did they stop.  But they told us that they’d be coming back during the daylight for a house-to-house search.(Kigali, Rwanda)


(1/3)  My husband and I were shopkeepers at the time of the genocide.  We sold groceries on one side of the shop, and on the other side we had a bar.  On the night the president’s plane was shot down, the place was full. Everyone was dancing and listening to music.  We heard a large explosion but didn’t think anything of it.  Everyone just went back to dancing.  But the next morning people began shopping frantically.  We were selling food in large quantities.  When we were down to the last 100 kilograms of potatoes, I decided not to sell anymore.  I could tell that danger was coming.  Nobody came to the bar that night.  The streets were empty and quiet.  People were either planning violence, or they were hiding.  We were one of the first cities to be liberated during the genocide.  So almost immediately there was fierce fighting throughout the city.  The killers knew they had to murder as quickly as possible.  They were herding groups of Tutsis onto bridges and shooting them all.  My husband and I had a reputation for being friendly with Tutsis, so we were suspected of being traitors.  Our neighbors began watching us closely.  We feared for our lives.  We had a lot of property, so we knew there was a big incentive to murder us.  When the first Tutsis came to us looking for shelter, we turned them away.  But one night I was walking near the house, and I heard a close friend calling to me from a tree.  He was dying of hunger.  It had been raining all day.  I said to myself: ‘The property isn’t worth it,’ and I invited him inside.  I didn’t even inform my husband.(Kigali, Rwanda)




(4/4)  The journey to the border took nearly four hours.  Our pace was very slow because there were so many kids in the group, and everyone was weak from hunger.  We had to avoid the main roads.  Thankfully I’d mapped out the route so I could find our path in the dark.  All of us were frightened.  Even if we heard an animal, everyone would jump.  When we arrived at the border, I pointed the group toward Burundi and headed back to camp.  I was confident that I’d avoided detection.  Several days passed without incident.  I even managed to run one more mission with a mother and child.  But somehow news leaked out.  And one night when I was returning from patrol, a Tutsi solider met me at the door of the barracks.  He was out of breath.  ‘You are already dead,’ he said. ‘They will torture you.’  I thought he was just being paranoid, but then I heard my name being called out on the radio.  Orders were given to shoot me on sight.  I left everything behind and began to run.  I hopped over the fence.  I didn’t stop running until I arrived at the border.  The next time anyone saw me, I was on television bearing witness to the crimes I had seen.(Kigali, Rwanda)


  Our base was only twenty kilometers from the border with Burundi.  After the first day of killings, I rode to the border on a bicycle, just to study the route.  I knew that I was taking a giant risk.   But I was a religious person.  I was a Christian before I was a soldier.  So for me, killing innocent people was more of a risk than trying to help them escape.  Many Tutsi families were part of my church community.  I had prayed with them many times.  So when one of them reached out for help, I could not refuse.  They told me their neighbors had just been murdered.  They feared they were next.  So I told them to gather in one place and meet me at midnight.  I snuck out of the camp.  I told my roommate to tell everyone I was sick on the toilet.  When I got to the meeting place, I was expecting to find one family, but there were twenty-three people waiting.  Many of them were too scared to come out of the bush.  They saw my uniform and thought I was leading them to their death.  But the mother of the family gathered everyone together for prayer.  She said: ‘Lord, we are frightened.  But we are going to trust our brother in Christ to take us to safety.’(Kigali, Rwanda)


(2/4)  There had always been permission to kill any Tutsis we discovered while on patrol.  But on April 6th our instructions became very clear: every Tutsi was to be found and killed.  It was even said over the radio.  Our first official order was to drive to a nearby city and open fire on unarmed civilians.  Most soldiers carried out the orders with glee.  The hatred had sunk into their core.  Let it be remembered that the killings were pursued with pride, passion, and determination. Soldiers fired indiscriminately at people walking down the road.  I pretended to participate, but I didn’t pull the trigger.  That night we returned to the camp and everyone swapped stories.  They bragged about how many people they’d killed.  It became a competition.  Soldiers would radio from other bases, and say: ‘We’ve killed so many already.  Why can’t you keep up?’  All of it was sickening.  I couldn’t eat for weeks.  But it was most traumatizing for the Tutsi soldiers in our army.  My roommate was a Tutsi.  He had to pretend like he was enjoying the murder of his friends and family.  He had to laugh along with the others to save his own life.  He could only remove his mask with me.  And he was the only one that I trusted with my plan.(Kigali, Rwanda)




  When I was twelve years old, they undressed a Tutsi girl in front of my entire school.  They wanted to see if her private parts were the same as other people.  She kept trying to cover herself with her hands while they pulled out her hairs one by one.  I can still hear the laughter.  Even with all the violence that came later, that was the most traumatic moment of my life.  It’s still the image I see when I’m trying to fall asleep.  The genocide didn’t begin until many years later, when I was twenty-five years old.  I was a soldier in the army.  I could tell the atmosphere was growing more and more tense.  Our commanders were openly using ethnic slurs.  There was talk of ‘wiping our enemies from this country.’  One night I was assigned to guard four Tutsi prisoners.  They’d been accused of making explosives but were clearly innocent civilians.  They’d been tortured.  Their wounds were rotten and stinking.  A major came to the cell at 1AM and ordered me to step aside. ‘These people need to be killed immediately,’ he said.  But I refused.  I told him those were not my instructions.  He pushed and screamed, but eventually he stormed off.  The prisoners were released a few days later, but someone followed them out and killed them.  It was a sign of things to come.(Kigali, Rwanda)




(4/4)  We didn’t lose a single person.  After hiding out for three weeks, we were rescued by the Rwandan Patriotic Front.  Everyone came running in from the fields.  All of us were cheering.  In the end, over three hundred people survived the genocide by hiding in this church.  I can’t remember all their faces.  Life has taken us to many different corners.  And some of them have left the country to begin new lives.  But many of them still call me father.  I’ve given away the bride in several different wedding ceremonies.  Occasionally people will randomly show up on my doorstep with drinks.  I’ll say to them: ‘You were with us in the church, weren’t you?’  And we’ll embrace.  When I look back, I believe the genocide could have been stopped if more pastors had taken a stand.  We were the ones with influence.  The killers belonged to our congregations.  And we could have held them back.  But instead we did nothing.  And every pastor had a different excuse.  Some said they didn’t know things would get so bad.  Some said they were too afraid.  And some said the government was too powerful to oppose.  But when you’re standing aside while people die, every excuse is a lame one.    (Kigali, Rwanda) 


 The next time the killers came, there were fifty of them.  All of them had guns or machetes.  They pushed straight past me and entered the pastor’s residence.  They began pulling people out of the ceiling.  They were kicking us and dragging us along the floor.  I knew this was the end.  I could see our death clearly.  Some people were shivering and wailing and screaming for mercy.  Others were completely silent.  They’d already lost so many loved ones and they were ready to die themselves.  We were dragged to this very spot and put in three lines.  We began to say our last prayers.  I scanned the mob of killers for recognizable faces.  Many of them were Christians.  Some were even from my congregation.  Every time I recognized a face, I called to him by name.  I said: ‘When I die, I am going to heaven.  Where will you go?’  Then I pointed to the next man, and asked him the same question.  Then the next.  Then the next.   Some of the killers grew nervous.  They began to argue amongst themselves.  Nobody wanted to be the first to kill.  Soon they were threatening to shoot each other.  And they began to leave, one by one, until all of them had run off.            (Kigali, Rwanda)


(2/4) We filled every hiding place with a person.  Some were in the ceiling.  Some were in the cupboards.  Some were under the floor.  There were even two people in this toilet.  That very first evening the militia came to my front gate.  Some were carrying guns.  Others were carrying machetes.  They’d been told that I was hiding people.  They demanded to come inside and search the property.  I stood in the doorway and told them that they’d have to kill me first.  ‘We’ll be back,’ they said. ‘And thanks for gathering the cockroaches into one place.  Because it will be easier to kill them here.’  Days passed by.  We were an abandoned, dying group.  Our food ran out quickly.  Thankfully some church members answered my call, and agreed to sneak us food after dark.  The nights were the worst.  We could hear gunfire and screaming in the surrounding hills.  Always we thought we were next.  Nobody was sleeping.  My wife and I lost so much weight.  All our friends abandoned us.  They pretended not to know us.  Only one pastor stood by our side.  He came to me one night and warned me that there was a plan to attack the church.  I told the news to my wife, and we both agreed that we were ready to die.(Kigali, Rwanda)




 First came the meetings.  They were openly advertised on community microphones.  Their stated purpose was to discuss ‘current issues,’ but everyone knew that killings were being organized.  These things were being openly discussed on the radio at the time.  I was always invited to these meetings, but I never attended.  I was a pastor.  I wanted no part in those discussions.  But when the killings finally commenced on April 7th, people came running to my church for sanctuary.  The first of them arrived early in the morning.  They were trembling and too scared to speak.  All they could say was: ‘Hide us, hide us.’  I told everyone to go inside the church.  I said: ‘If our God is true, we will be OK.’  Finally a young man arrived who was able to talk.  ‘They killed my parents,’ he said. ‘All of us are being hunted.’  I was also terrified but I tried not to show it.  I just kept bringing people inside the gate.  By the time the sun went down, there were over three hundred people hiding on this property.(Kigali, Rwanda)




On April 6th 1994, an airplane carrying the President of Rwanda was shot down over the capital city of Kigali, serving as a catalyst for genocide against the minority Tutsi population.  One million people were killed over the next 100 days. It was one of the most violent episodes in human history.  The stories from that time can be traumatizing to hear.  Living through them is nearly unimaginable.  But in the wake of this tragedy, an equally unlikely story has unfolded.  It is the story of Rwanda’s recovery and reconciliation.  Rwanda has become one of Africa’s model economies.  Its streets are clean and safe.  Over one million tourists visit each year.  If you walk through Kigali today, it’s difficult to imagine the events that occurred less than twenty-five years ago.  But the stories are still there.  And you can’t listen to them without being reminded of humanity’s capacity for violence and the fragility of peace.  During my week in Rwanda, I focused on the stories of people who took a moral stand during the genocide.  These are members of the Hutu majority who risked their lives to shield and protect Tutsis.  In Rwanda they are known as ‘The Rescuers.’  Over the next several days, I will be sharing their stories.




I thought it was a prank.  I was only twenty years old.  It was the first time we’d ever had sex.  We discussed ending the pregnancy but I begged her to consider keeping it.  Both of our families were supportive.  I promised that I would provide. And once we decided to keep the child, I started earning money however I could.  I learned to print t-shirts and do graphic design.  I sold my phone to buy a camera.  My mother even took out a loan to help me buy it.  There was no photography school in this country, so I had to learn everything myself.  I took so many pictures of my daughter growing up.  My mother would sit for lighting practice.  I watched YouTube videos.  I watched every single class on Creative Live.  Finally I got good enough that someone hired me to take pictures of their party.  Then I moved on to weddings and corporate events.  Now my dream is to become a documentary photographer.  There are so many stories to tell in this country, but very few outlets will publish them.  That hasn’t stopped me though.  I’ve photographed a slaughterhouse with horrible conditions.  I’ve interviewed World War II veterans across the country.  Last year I spent three days documenting a ‘women-only’ village in Kenya.  Nobody would publish the work so I paid for the trip with my savings.  My wife has been so supportive.  She helps me edit the photos.  One day I’m hoping to sell my stories to international media.  And if I’m able to establish myself, I’d like to begin my own photography school in Ghana.  (Accra, Ghana)




I wanted to be a billionaire by the age of thirty.  It was a literal goal.  I wanted to be the African version of Bill Gates or Warren Buffett.  My parents always told me to work hard, and the money will come.  It just seemed like the prize you got for checking all the boxes.  And I always checked the boxes.  I made straight A’s.  I went to Howard University.  I worked at Goldman Sachs after graduating.  The plan was to make money, build relationships, then return to Ghana and create some businesses.  But my first business took too long to get off the ground.  Then I got frustrated and poured all my savings into another business.  Both of them were self-sustaining for a while, but it’s been a struggle since then.  Right now I’m trying to raise more funds and it’s not going well.  And I’m a far reach from where I wanted to be.  My confidence is shaken.  I’m unsure of my next step.  And I’m approaching forty.  I’m trying to manage the disappointment by changing my perspective.  I try to remind myself that I have a beautiful wife and son.  I’ve employed people.  And I’ve had some great experiences.  I no longer feel the need to be a billionaire.  My new goal is to have a successful business that I can work at every day.  But in the back of my mind, I keep wondering: ‘Am I developing a more realistic perspective?  Or is this what quitting sounds like?’  (Accra, Ghana)




When I remember that December is coming, I get anxious.  We pay rent at the end of the year and we don’t have it.  We’re saving all we can but we’re only halfway there.  My husband sells kabobs but it’s not going well.  I’m selling bananas to help out.  My children are wearing torn school uniforms.  I can only afford books for some of them.  I prioritize by who will get in the least amount of trouble with their teachers.  The smallest one doesn’t have any books right now, because I need the oldest one to get high marks.  I don’t know what I’ll do if we get evicted.  But I bounce back.  I’m a happy person.  And all of the shopkeepers around here are my friends.  We keep each other distracted.  We play jokes on each other.  We make each other laugh.  And we share what we have.  Some of them are drivers, and if they drive out to the province, they’ll bring back food for me.  So life can be good.  Things are manageable.  And I’m fine as long as I stay busy.  I only withdraw when I remember the challenges I have.  (Accra, Ghana)




There’s no decorum in this country when it comes to childbirth.  Our society expects you to have children.  People start watching your stomach immediately after marriage.  Soon the questions begin from family, friends, and eventually complete strangers.  Thankfully I have a supportive partner, because we went through seven miscarriages and two stillbirths.  The pressure from family was unbearable.  I was made to drink potions.  I bathed in holy water.  At one point I was even stripped naked in front of people to be scanned in the spirit realm.  It doesn’t matter how much education you have.  You get to the point where you’ll try anything.  You don’t feel like a woman anymore.  After years of trying, we finally visited a special doctor who said: ‘There’s nothing wrong with you.  Go on holiday.  Enjoy life.’  We dismissed his opinion because we’d given up, but nine months later our son was born.  Today I have three children.  Because of my difficulties, I try to help women who are going through the same thing.  I run a little community called My Sister’s Keeper.  We offer free therapy and fertility counseling for women who are having trouble.  But mainly it’s a place to cool off.  To get a free spa treatment.  To feel like a woman.  And to think about anything but having a baby.(Accra, Ghana)


(3/3) It’s not easy being king.  I have to follow many of the old rituals.  I cannot be seen in public without an escort.  I must always eat alone.  And the power isn’t what it used to be.  We’re living in a different time.  We aren’t battling for territory anymore.  We aren’t petitioning the colonies.  The palace still rules on minor disputes, but mainly my power is indirect.  I advocate for my people when the national government is setting its agenda.  I enjoy the role.  I want to improve the lives of all my subjects.  I want them to have clean water.  I want them to have quality education.  But my main focus is development.  I want our kingdom to become a tourist hub.  The income would transform so many lives, and we have so much to offer.  We have a beautiful river.  We have a great history.  And we have some of the oldest artifacts in Ghana.  In 1680 the Dutch built a castle on our shores, and my people captured it.  It was the first time in history that a black man owned a castle.  We held it for several years.  Eventually we gave it back, on one condition: they had to let us keep the keys.(Akwamufie, Ghana)
(2/3)  After I was granted asylum, I moved in with some cousins in the Bronx.  My first job was washing dishes in the kitchen of an adult home.  I was paid $297 every two weeks.  But I noticed that the private nursing assistants were paid a lot more, so I enrolled in some classes and received my certification.  My first assignment was a quadriplegic named Hector.  I ended up staying with him for six years.  I fed him, changed his diapers, helped him go to the bathroom, everything.  I really loved him.  We went all over the place.  We drove to Chicago and California.  My shift was the overnight, so sometimes I’d drive him to the club and he’d go dancing in his wheelchair.  I’d stand right next to him the entire time.  During the day I took classes at Lehman College.  I majored in health services.  After my graduation, the whispers began once more.  Family members were urging me to come home and take my rightful position on the throne.  So I said ‘goodbye’ to Hector and moved back to Ghana.  I got a job in business until the last king passed away in 2011.  And this time when the elders called on me, I was ready. (Akwamufie, Ghana)




(1/3)  I’m the 29th King of the Akwamu Empire.  Three hundred years ago we ruled the entire southern part of Ghana.  The English described us as ‘bullies.’  The Danes described us as ‘thieves.’  Today I have 120 towns under my jurisdiction.  But I didn’t always want to be king.  I knew from a young age that it was a possibility.  I’m from the royal bloodline.  But I just hoped they’d choose someone else.  I was in college the first time they tried to coronate me.  I was studying accounting.  I heard a rumor that the king had passed away and that I would be next.  So I panicked.  I googled ‘political asylum.’  I took someone else’s passport.  I didn’t even bother to change the picture.  I’d never left Ghana before, but I took a one-way flight to New York City.  I presented myself at the JFK customs counter, and said:  ‘You have to help me. They’re trying to make me king.’ (Akwamufie, Ghana)




When I was eighteen, a large group of students visited Ghana from the UK for a youth development program.  It was an expensive program.  It cost thousands of pounds.  But I got to join for free because they needed some Ghanaians for a smattering of cultural diversity.  The program was a mixture of community service and adventure.  We actually came canoeing on this very lake.  The whole time I was thinking about how much money was being made from our natural resources.  And how much of that money was leaving Ghana.  I became determined to make Ghana money out of the Ghana environment.  So after graduating college, I set out to build a world-class adventure company.  It’s been over five years now.  We have twelve full time employees and twenty-five adventure locations.  Best of all, I think we’re creating an adventure culture in the country.  Our clients were 70 percent foreign when we started.  Now they’re 80 percent Ghanaian.  Behind me is Survival Island.  It’s my latest project and biggest risk yet.  I constructed a full ropes course, and one day I hope to build the world’s longest zip line.  That would really put Ghana on the adventure map.(Accra, Ghana)




It first happened when I was trying to save money for high school.  A man offered to help me.  He’d give me food sometimes.  I’d cook for him and watch his children.  But then one night he asked me to sleep with him, and I refused, so he locked the door and raped me.  A different boss forced himself on me during a trip and gave me $100 to keep quiet.  It’s happened about ten times.  It’s not just employers.  It’s anyone who offers to help.  I’m very religious and my faith would never allow me to do such a thing.  But I’m not strong enough.  There are times when I’m so desperate.  I have kids.  I can’t buy food.  I can’t buy prescriptions.  And someone offers help.  They tell me they just want to help, but I know in the back of my mind what’s going to happen.  I go with them because I have no choice.  And I feel so much guilt afterwards.  Of course I don’t tell anyone.  I just cry and pray for forgiveness.(Accra, Ghana)


A few years ago my marriage was breaking down.  I was depressed.  I wanted to leave.  But when I tried speaking to my friends about it, most people told me to ‘suck it up.’  They told me not to be selfish, and to think of my children.  Church members told me that I’d go to hell.  Family members told me that an unhappy marriage was better than being alone.  Above all, everyone told me to keep quiet.  There’s a taboo in our culture against ‘airing dirty laundry.’  Therapy is stigmatized.  So I had nobody to talk to.  During that time, I’d lock myself up for days and cry.  Luckily there was Qwarme.  We grew up together.  We’ve been friends since high school.  He understood me.   But most of all, he just listened.  The experience gave us an idea to start a listening channel for other people who needed to talk.  I bought a new phone number.  We put out a call on social media, inviting anyone to call in anonymously and share their problems.  I do most of the listening.  But if they’d rather speak to a male, then Qwarme steps in.  We’ve helped almost seventy people in the last three years.  It’s become a round-the-clock job.  Some people call us every day.  Others will call once a month but talk for hours.  Occasionally we’ll recommend a therapist if it seems like professional help is needed.  But other than that, we just listen.  And for most people, that’s enough.(Accra, Ghana)




My mom was left with eight children when my father died.  I had to help raise my siblings because I was the oldest.  I tried working as a seamstress, but it wasn’t enough.  I had to supplement my income by selling eggs.  I’d buy my eggs every morning from the same woman.  But one morning she sold me bad eggs.  Twenty crates of them.  They were too small to sell.  But I just started praying, and I heard a voice telling me to come to this spot.  By the end of the day I’d sold every crate.  And this is where my business has been ever since.  I raised my siblings with this business.  I bought land.  I got married.  I divorced my womanizing husband.  I raised my children.  And then I raised my siblings’ children.  I did it all on my own.  I’ve never had help from anybody.  But without this business, I’d have been helpless.  (Accra, Ghana)




I was eighteen years old.  I went out one night with a male cousin and his friends.  I felt safe with him.  But he gave me a drink and I started to not feel like myself.  He took me home to his house.  It was dark inside and I could hear people moving around.  I heard murmuring in the shadows.  I tried to lock myself in the washroom.  But they beat down the door.  It lasted all night.  They took turns.  I was still a virgin when it happened.  I had goals for myself.  I’d started reading at a very young age.  I wanted to go to school.  But that night everything changed.  I didn’t leave my bedroom for months.  I wasn’t going to tell anyone.  But unfortunately for me, I got pregnant.  I was forced to tell my family.  My father didn’t believe me.  He said: ‘If you’re old enough to get pregnant, you’re old enough to live on your own.’  He kicked me out of the house.  He told me: ‘You’ve used your body once.  You can use it again.’  I had to beg on the street.  I’d go for days without eating.  I hid in the bushes outside my house and begged my siblings for food.  But they avoided me like I was a disease.  I had to abort the baby.  I wasn’t mad at the child, but I had no choice.  I was completely alone.  That was twenty years ago, and I survived.  I’m financially comfortable now.  And maybe I’ve found some peace.  But I’ve never healed.  I don’t want anyone in my life.  I got married once but I hated the sex too much.  Even then I felt alone.  I’ll always live like I have nobody.  I’ve made a few friends, but in the back of my mind, I’m on my own.  Because I don’t want to feel vulnerable.  I don’t want to feel weak.  I don’t want to cry.  I don’t ever want to need anyone again.(Accra, Ghana)




My father wants me to work in government, but I think there are plenty of problems we can solve ourselves.  So I’d rather be an entrepreneur.  Two issues we have in this country are erratic power and excess trash.  So recently I’ve been dreaming of a waste-to-energy plant.  It could be a solution to both problems.  I’ve been researching on the Internet for months.  The technology exists.  But this morning I had a meeting with the electric company, and they told me the power supply is currently stable.  There isn’t a market for extra energy.  So I’m feeling a little disappointed. But I’m going to explore other ideas.  I’m also researching methods to manufacture furniture with leftover sugarcane fiber.  I just want to do something about all this waste.  It makes me so angry.  Our gutters are filled.  Our bins are overflowing.  I’ve been carrying this trash for a mile because there’s nowhere to put it.  And nobody feels responsibility for the problem.  In the village where I grew up, everything was clean.  Because everyone viewed the land as their own.  I wish we’d view our entire country like that.  Personally, I don’t want anyone calling Ghana dirty.(Accra, Ghana)




We had a big discussion whether to raise him in Africa or move to the states.  We both grew up in Ghana.  But I got my PhD in West Virginia, so moving to America was an option.  The job opportunities would certainly be better there.  Both of us are professors, and you’d probably laugh if you knew what we got paid here.  Healthcare would be better too.  You don’t hear of people dying in America because they can’t find an open hospital bed.  But despite these things, we decided to raise our son here.  Because he’d never have to think about the color of his skin.  We never have to explain what it means to be black.  Or the rules of being black.  One day in West Virginia I got an Amber Alert on my phone.  All it said was: ‘tall black male.’  I was the only one in sight so I nearly panicked.  Then another day I was walking back to my dormitory.  I’d just finished teaching a course.  Someone drove by in a red truck, threw a hamburger at my head, and called me the ‘N Word.’  It was 3 o’clock in the afternoon.  I don’t want to explain that stuff to my child.  It’s exhausting to be conscious of your skin all the time.  You either become militant or you become defeated.  And I understand why it happens, but extremes of anything aren’t good.  (Accra, Ghana)


My mother had a lot of problems in her life, so I grew up without her.  It was a difficult childhood.  Everything that I’ve accomplished came from the kindness of others.  My first angel was my grandmother, who let me live with her.  My second angel was my first grade teacher.  Her name was Madam Felicia.  I had no confidence when I met her.  I thought I was dull because I never did well on my examinations.  But she saw greatness in me.  She taught me how to study and think.  Then in fourth grade I met my third angel, Madam Faustina.  She was also my teacher.  After hearing my story, I think she decided to take me as her son.  She promised to support me as long as I worked hard.  She grew me up.  She taught me the Bible.  She paid for my books and school fees.  I’m in university now, but even yesterday she called to see if I needed anything.  I’m currently studying to be a lecturer.  I’m taking three different majors.  I want to help people.  It’s only natural because of all the people who helped me.  I feel like there are so many people out there who can do great things, but are doomed unless they find someone to help them.  (Accra, Ghana)


My parents didn’t have any money, so I began living with my uncle when I was fifteen.  For years he treated me like his own son.  Anything I asked of him, he would give me.  We played music together.  We sang in the choir together.  But when he met a new woman, everything changed.  He suddenly decided to stop providing for me.  I couldn’t buy myself food or clothes anymore.  I felt betrayed.  So I snuck into his room and took some money from his drawer.  His new girlfriend caught me.  And she told my uncle when he came home.  I cried when he confronted me.  But there was nothing I could say.  I knew that I had to leave the house.  My situation was desperate.  I had nothing to eat.  I moved in with a friend, and some days we’d share a single bowl of curry.  I was forced to figure things out.  I began to work harder.  I found a job as a cleaner.  Now I’m studying to be a chef.   I’m twenty-five years old, and for the first time in my life I’m standing on my own two feet.  I haven’t spoken to my uncle since that day.  But I’m going to see him in a couple weeks.  I realize now that I was too old to be depending on him.  I felt entitled to his generosity.  And when he took it away, I betrayed him.  He wanted me to become a man.  So I want to tell him that I understand.  And ‘thank you.’  And ‘I’m sorry.'(Accra, Ghana)


I had some experience with abuse as a young child.  Victims are shamed in our culture, so I couldn’t talk to anyone.  I had to deal with it myself.  I had to grow out of it.  I tried to cope by reading books about the human brain.  I learned how to heal, and move on, and not be bitter.  Only later did I discover that all this was something called ‘psychology.’  I only wanted to get to the point where I didn’t feel shame anymore.  And the more I learned, the more I became determined to feel comfortable with sex.  I joined sex forums online.  I experimented.  I had threesomes.  Eventually I learned so much that I decided to become an educator.  I’ve moderated about fifteen discussions so far.  I call it: ‘The Sex Talk.’  I’ve spoken at church groups.  I’ve spoken at schools.  And it’s taken a lot of courage.  Because people in this country think that if you’re speaking about it, you’re encouraging it. But I think secrecy is what’s harmful.  Why not explain sex to kids?  We show them how to do everything else.  They need to know that these feelings are natural, and that they have a brain to keep them in check.  Either we educate people about sex, or they’ll be confused by it.  And if they’re confused by it, they’ll be shamed by it.  And if they’re shamed by it, they’ll be controlled by it.   (Accra, Ghana)


I’m on the way to buy soft drinks for my mother.  I also fetch water, and sweep, and help her wash clothes.  She calls me ‘boss’ because I work so hard, but I love to help her because she cares for me so much.  She buys me clothes.  She reads me storybooks.  She sings me gospel songs.  She helps me with my homework.  She gives me medicine when I’m sick.  One time she baked my friend a cake because his parents couldn’t afford any presents.  I’m going to buy her a house one day. She’s very dark and beautiful.  I really have a wonderful mother.  (Accra, Ghana)


My husband is a mechanic, but his business is slow.  It’s not enough.  I’m selling this so my children can go to school.  I want them to go above me.  I want them to be a great someone in this country.  When I see them happy, I feel happy.  Every time I pay their school fees, they tell me: ‘Mommy you are the best mommy.’  So I’m out here all day in the sun.  Then I go home, I cook, I bathe, I put them to bed, and then I go to sleep.  I’ve been sick with malaria this past week.  I haven’t been able to work.  My husband wants me to rest but the kids are beginning to cry from hunger.  The stress is too much for him alone.  When I was lying in bed, I just kept praying: ‘God, help me go sell.’  But every time I went outside, my fever was too much.  My body felt too cold.  And I had to go back inside.  Today is my first day back to work.  I woke up with no headache, but it’s so bad right now.  There’s pain all over my body.  I’m just hoping to sell enough to buy tomorrow’s supply. (Lagos, Nigeria)




The first time I was offered a journalism job in Nigeria, the newspaper owner suggested that I supplement my income with bribes.  He told me: ‘I’m giving you a platform.  Use what you have to get what you need.’  I knew then that the rumors were true.  Journalism in this country was corrupted.  There was no idealism.  Reporters were writing stories for money.  And even more damaging, they were killing stories for money.  I didn’t want to participate.  I felt it would be more ethical to just find a corporate job.  But in 2008, I was given the opportunity to manage a new paper founded by Nigeria’s only Pulitzer Prize winner, Dele Olojede.  The paper was called Next.  And we tried to change things.  We hired young people who were untainted by the culture.  Half of them were women.  We paid them well and we trained them well.  Ethics came first.  Accepting gifts was absolutely forbidden.  Our paper survived for three years.  During that time, we broke major stories every single week.  We exposed all sorts of corruption.  But we were targeted for our success.  Our reporters were detained.  Our board members were threatened.  The government leaned on our advertisers, and they withdrew one by one.  Eventually we were forced to close.  But for three years we set the pace.  We created a mold.  And I believe we changed the media landscape.  Investigative journalism is stronger now.  Many of our journalists have gone on to start amazing publications of their own.  The paper may have been short lived, but I know it had an impact.  Revolution is too strong of a word, but we definitely shook the table.(Lagos, Nigeria)


I want to live a happy life.  I’m tired of living a poor life.  I’m trying to save money for school but nothing is working.  I’ve left home three different times looking for work.  The first time I found a job as a housekeeper.  But every morning when I got dressed the man would try to touch me.  I was only seventeen.  He wouldn’t even stop when I threatened to tell on him.  His wife blamed me for his attention. She beat me severely.  There were bruises all over my body.  She didn’t even allow me to eat.  But I tried to stay because I wanted to go to school so badly.  Then one morning he tried to rape me in the bath, and I finally ran away.  When I found a new housekeeping job, the same thing happened.  This time it was a pastor.  So a few weeks ago I switched to a cleaning job at an art gallery.  But they just fired me for speaking to the visitors.  I don’t know why this always happens to me.  It makes me so angry.  I get mad at my parents for being poor.  I get mad at my friends for going to school.  When I see their graduation pictures on Facebook, I just start crying.  I’m already twenty years old.  I should be finishing school, but I haven’t even started yet.  But everything has it’s own time.  Hopefully my time will come too.  (Lagos, Nigeria)


My uncle was an engineer.  He’s the one that exposed me to reading.  He’d get a book, finish it, and give it to me.  By the time I was twenty I’d read over one thousand books.  I learned how to live from the characters I encountered.  The first book I ever read was The Passport of Malam Illia, and to this day it’s the reason I never take vengeance.  And there’s plenty to be angry about around here.  Most of my friends are poor.  When we were growing up, police would come to the slum in the evening, pick up my friends, and beat them for no reason.  It made me so angry.  But books also taught me that we have the power to change things.  We can fight for lower fuel prices.  We can fight for better medical facilities.  I’m actually heading to a protest right now.  We haven’t had electricity in this slum for ten days.  Why?  Because last month we protested and now they’re trying to punish us.  But we won’t sit down.  Too many poor people don’t realize their own power because they’ve been subjugated for too long.  They’re like the chickens I keep in my house.  Every time I whistle, the chickens come.  Even when I don’t have food in my hand.  And that’s how people think.  They believe that only government has the power to give.  But anything the government has power to give, we have the power to take for ourselves.  (Lagos, Nigeria)




My father died young, but my mother was well-to-do.  I was an only child and she took care of me well.  She promised me at a young age that she’d send me to Oxford University.  So I studied hard.  My best subject was English.  I wanted to be a lecturer.  But my mother passed away the same year that I graduated high school.  She’d been sick for so long.  Our assets were depleted from the hospital bills.  There were no jobs in our village, so I came to the city looking for greener pastures.  I taught myself to sew, and now I make men’s suits.  It’s not the type of work I wanted to do.  I’m tired all the time.  Business is slow.  Life is expensive.  It’s frustrating when you work twelve hours a day and can’t even feed your family well.  We don’t have a television.  We don’t have a radio.  Because everything I have left, I spend on their school.  They’re good students.  I encourage them to study hard.  I always tell them to focus because I want them to go far.  And anything I can remember from school, I teach them myself.  (Lagos, Nigeria)


It wasn’t sudden.  He was born four months early.  The organs didn’t have enough time to mature.  He just wasn’t ready for life.  But he held on for more than two years.  He was such a happy child.  He laughed so hard when you rocked him.  We called him ‘Bibi,’ because his older brother couldn’t say ‘baby.’  Toward the end, he was learning to stand on his own.  We honestly thought he was going to make it.  But his immune system was just too weak from all the medication.  And his lungs were too weak from all the machines.  He couldn’t survive.  I had a hard childhood growing up.  This place makes you tough.  Nigerians and cockroaches will be the last living things on this planet.  I can remember being nine years old, and sitting down with my brothers to make a plan when we ran out of food.  Our only idea was to drink a lot of water.  So I’ve always had to be strong.  When my brother died, I couldn’t mourn.  I was the oldest in the family.  I had to hold it together and make arrangements.  But not this time.  After Bibi, I decided that I don’t ever have to be strong again.  That was my child.  I can’t button this one up.  Either I allow myself to be weak, or I’m never going to get through it.  (Lagos, Nigeria)




I had a lonely childhood.  I didn’t have many friends.  I spent a lot of time writing depressing poetry in my room.  But everything changed the first time I saw someone perform a spoken word poem.  It was at a fellowship meeting.  I never realized that poetry could impact an audience like that.  After the meeting, the girl invited me to join her poetry club.  There were seven members.  They met every Thursday under a guava tree in the school courtyard.  It was a place for me to just write, and to read what I’d written.  It was a place where I felt accepted and got critical feedback.  I got better at writing.  I grew more confident.  Eventually I performed in front of larger audiences, and my projects got more ambitious.  Now I’m working on a book.  It’s been my main focus for the last four years.  It’s about a little girl who’s misunderstood.  She’s an artist.  She wants to be recognized and understood.  But everyone around her thinks she’s a witch.  When I began writing the book, the character was based on myself.  But I’m so different than her now.  I’m not depressed anymore.  I’m closer to my family.  I don’t feel so isolated.  But I’m not sure she’s gotten there yet.   I’m struggling to not impose my growth onto her journey.  As a writer you’re supposed to detach yourself from your character.  But when you’ve included so many elements of yourself, and you’ve evolved so much, it’s really hard to do.  (Lagos, Nigeria)


I’m a community leader here.  I watch over about eighty people.  We meet every month, and I try to bring their concerns to the government.  They also look to me for guidance on how to vote.  Hardly any of them are educated.  Most of us have nothing.  I’m lucky because I work as a street cleaner, but my salary hasn’t been paid in three months.  But if we try to feed ourselves by hawking articles on the side of the road, the government will put us in jail.  We need jobs.  We need clean water.  We need good roads.  The politicians promise these things before every election.  They visit the neighborhood, and tell us this time it will be different.  But after the election they disappear.  I’ve been to the minister’s office so many times.  Every time his receptionist tells me that he’s in a meeting.  I sit there all day.  The meeting never ends.  But he’ll show up again when the election comes around, carrying eighty packages of noodles, and a polo shirt with his name on it.  (Lagos, Nigeria)




I attribute my success to getting to know God early in life.  Where I grew up, it was easy to go wayward.  And it was risky to go wayward.  Thankfully I studied the Bible enough to know the definition of sin.  It taught me right from wrong.  If I’d been out there trying to figure it out myself, I’d have taken too many wrong turns.  I’d probably have gotten pregnant at a young age.  I definitely wouldn’t be an architect right now.  Maybe some people can do it without God.   But not many people in my neighborhood were reading books about morality and ethics.  We weren’t being taught the seven habits of highly effective people.  But we did have the word of God.  I relied on it.  And it carried me through. (Lagos, Nigeria)


I just drove by a man being beaten by police.  He was a bus driver.  He’d been pulled from his bus, pinned to the ground, and beaten with sticks in front of his passengers.  It’s not uncommon.  He probably refused to pay their bribe.  I see it two or three times a month.  Sometimes it’s fists.  Sometimes it’s sticks.  Sometimes it’s whips.  You can try to take a photo but it’s dangerous.  Because then they can turn on you.  So you just keep driving.  It makes me sick because I work as a driver, and I know that one day it might happen to me.  I never drive through yellow lights.  It’s too dangerous.  Sometimes they’ll even force you into a violation.  They’ll purposely direct you the wrong way down a ‘one way’ street.  If that happens, you don’t argue.  You don’t try to defend yourself.  You will lose no matter what.  You just start begging.  (Lagos, Nigeria)




It happened in May.  I was driving my friend’s Mercedes to school because my car had broken down.  And suddenly I got pulled over.  I turned on the interior lights.  I showed the policemen my ID.  I called my friend on the phone and asked him to explain the situation.  But they said: ‘Not enough, get out of the car.’  They started calling me a prostitute.  I told them I’m an artist.  Then they saw my laptop in the backseat, and they tried calling me an Internet scammer.  They asked me to open my computer and type in the password.  I told them it wasn’t possible.  Then they asked for a huge bribe, and I told them it wasn’t possible.  That’s when they cocked their guns at me.  One of them got in the front seat.  He pointed his gun at me and told me to drive to an ATM.  I brought him to this exact spot, and he escorted me to the machine.  I left the car running.  I maxed out one of my cards, and told him that I have go back and get another one.  Then I locked the door and started driving away.  That’s when he started shooting at me!  All of this was captured on surveillance cameras.  I sped away.  I was taking short cuts and back roads.  The whole time I was thinking I’m about to get killed.  When I got home, I found four dents in the car from where the bullets hit.  Afterwards I contacted the police, and they said they wouldn’t even speak to me unless I deleted the story from social media.  I said: ‘I’m not doing that.  I’m a law student.’ (Lagos, Nigeria)




They’re called Yahoo Boys.  The name comes from the old days when they used Yahoo email accounts to scam people.  I first started seeing them when I went to the University of Lagos.  They form little gangs.  They travel in convoys where all the cars are the same color.  They’re always on their laptops.  These days a lot of them are legitimized.  They rent office space.  They refer to their targets as ‘clients.’  They start charities.  They put their fraud money into other businesses.  Some of them have Instagram accounts with hundreds of thousands of followers.  They post pictures of their cars and clothes.  They never mention where they got their money, but everyone knows.  A lot of them buy art from me.  Since a lot of their scams are emotional fraud, they’ll even ask me for advice on things that women would say in a relationship.  Or they’ll ask me to pick up their phone and pretend to be a secretary.  I never participate.   Recently I’ve even stopped selling them paintings.  It’s cost me a lot.  But I can’t take their money without feeling complicit.  (Lagos, Nigeria)




When I was the age of this boy, my father had a stroke.  My family used all our savings to take care of him.  And after we’d spent everything, my father gave up the ghost.  We were left in a desperate situation.  There was no money left.  There were six of us living in a single room.  I was only in 5th grade, but I had to go to work.  I carried oranges on my head and sold them in the street.  Then one day I met the owner of a print shop.  He was a friend of my brother.  He fed me every afternoon, and he began to teach me his profession.  He told me: ‘Never view yourself as having nothing.’  And he showed me that I could change my life with skills alone.  Now I have my own shop.  And anyone who has an interest, I will teach them.  I’ve taught fourteen boys already.  This boy has stopped going to school.  But we can’t allow him to be idle.  We must keep him busy because there’s criminality all around us.  Every day we see drug dealers walk by.  I point to them and I ask: ‘Do you want to be like them?  Or do you want to be like me?’(Lagos, Nigeria)




My mother won the visa lottery, so when I was young my family relocated to Minnesota.  I think I’m the only one of my siblings who always viewed Nigeria as home.  I participated in Model UN.  I studied international political science.  I admired Nelson Mandela.  So I always knew I’d go back to Africa one day.  After graduation I interned with an NGO in Northern Nigeria.  During that trip I witnessed a breached birth in a village.  There was no C-Section available, so the baby died.  I knew then that not only would I be coming home to Nigeria, but I’d be doing something in healthcare.  I’ve been home for six years now.  I’ve chosen to work on the country’s blood distribution problem.  Every year tens of thousands of people die while waiting for blood.  Meanwhile there are blood banks discarding unused inventory.  My company LifeBank is trying to close that gap.  Most blood banks in Lagos are participating in our program.  Every morning we take an inventory.  And when blood is urgently needed, we use bikes to deliver.  It’s not easy.  Imagine New York City without the infrastructure and no subway system.  That’s Lagos.  Yet LifeBank has delivered over 10,000 bags of blood within 55 minutes.  Blood shortage is a global problem.  And if we can do it in Lagos, we can do it anywhere.  In December we’re expanding to two new cities.  But I see us all over the world.  (Lagos, Nigeria)




Shortly after arriving in Lagos, my guide showed me a story that was being passed around Nigerian social media.  There was a woman who’d been stopped in traffic behind a crowded prison truck, and she witnessed a food vendor running alongside, shoving his food between the bars of the window, into the hands of the prisoners inside. By the time he was finished, he’d given away all his food.  The man was himself in desperate circumstances.  He was sleeping outdoors.  But despite having hardly anything to give, he gave away all his merchandise.  Amazingly, my guide Kola was able to locate the man.  His name is Ibere Ugochukwu.  And this is his story:   A few years ago I worked as an apprentice in a cosmetics shop.  I was supposed to receive a payment at the end of my term.  But I was warned by the other employees that the owner would find a reason not to pay me.  He’d always invent reasons to fire his boys right before their payment.  So I made the decision to quit.  But when I told him, he dragged me to the police.  He told them lies about me.  He told them I’d stolen so much money.  And they tortured me.  They tied my hands and legs and they hung me from the ceiling.  They beat me.  I went deaf from all the slaps.  For ten days I was given no food.  My fellow prisoners would share little bits of their meals when they were finished.  But some days I saw nothing.  Honestly I was about to die.  And I started to pray to God.  And on the tenth day, the guards decided that it would cause too much trouble to let me die.  They told my employer: ‘After what we did to him, he must be innocent.  Because he’d have confessed if he was guilty.'  They released me into the world like a madman.  And I’ve carried the memory ever since.  I promised myself that if I ever found someone in a similar situation, I would help.  So when I learned that prisoners pass down this road, I chose to hawk in this location.  I waited until I finally saw the truck, and I pushed all my food through the bars.  My fellow vendors couldn’t believe it.  They asked me who would pay me for the food.  I told them: ‘I didn’t do it for any man.  I did it because of what God did for me.’  (Lagos, Nigeria)




I’m studying human development.  A few years ago I came across an article that said there were no successful black nations in the world.  It really angered me.  I thought: ‘Some fellow is trying to run us down.’  But then I discovered the author of the article was Nigerian.  And the more I read, the more I realized it was true.  And I started to think that maybe we should be mad at ourselves.  I always hear my friends complaining about the politicians in this country.  I tell them: ‘Imagine that lightning strikes and suddenly you’re the president.  Would you know enough honest people to form a government?’  And they freeze.  Because our culture doesn’t ascribe a premium to honesty.  People will laugh at you for being honest and broke.  Nigeria has the highest concentration of black people in the world.  So this is where it should happen.  But development doesn’t begin with things, it begins with people.  I’m not saying that self-criticism is the answer.  But it’s the beginning of the answer.  Maybe we should be a little less proud and a little more discontent.  Maybe we should stop blaming our immorality on poverty.  I grew up in the slums and I don’t want to hear it.  Don’t blame it on colonialism, nepotism, racism, or any of the ‘isms.’  And don’t blame it on the slave trade.  Because slavery didn’t begin with white people.  White people purchased slaves from our shores, that’s true.  But black people did the selling.  And we were paid for what we sold. (Lagos, Nigeria)




In my church you’re either Christian or possessed by demons. We have services four times per week.  Luckily zoning out looks a lot like praying.  I’m not saying that I don’t believe any of it.  I just have a lot of questions that nobody will answer.  Whenever I ask a hard question, they just show me a bible quote that says I shouldn’t ask questions.  It doesn’t make sense to me.  I think I’m becoming a Nihilist.  Honestly, I don’t see any reason why people should be born.  You exist, then you strive to attain something to make sense of your existence, and then you don’t exist anymore.  Can’t we cut out some of those steps?  It’s just too much work.  I didn’t sign up for this.  And when you finally die, instead of everything stopping, you have to become conscious again?  Heaven doesn’t sound that great.  Supposedly there’s a lot of singing and trumpets.  That sounds exhausting.  I’d rather be sleeping.(Lagos, Nigeria)




You can’t just use Beyoncé to sell products in Nigeria.  Well, maybe Beyoncé is a bad example.  Beyoncé can sell anywhere.  But most of the time you need to adapt your advertising to local tastes.  So I help international companies create marketing campaigns for Nigeria.  A few years ago I started my own company.  I’d gotten tired of working for someone else.  I was doing all the work on some projects, and I’d only walk away with peanuts.  So I took the leap.  My goal was to win a single bid that first year.  I just needed one big name to risk a little money on me.  Because a little money to them was a lot of money to me.  I knew I had the technical experience.  I had the ‘know how.’  I just didn’t have an office, or a staff, or a big name.  But that became my pitch.  I argued that bigger agencies take their clients for granted.  I told companies: ‘I’m not relaxed like that.  I’m hungry.  I’m going to give you more juice.’  My first client ended up being Coca Cola.   Maybe I didn’t have things quite as figured out as I allowed them to believe.  But hey, that’s advertising.  And I delivered.(Lagos, Nigeria)




I used to walk 12 kilometers to school.  And every day along the side of the road, there’d be an old woman who was so sick that she couldn’t move.  The sun would beat her.  The rain would beat her.  And nobody would help.  I was only seven years old.  I couldn’t stand it.  But my parents wouldn’t agree to bring a total stranger into our house.  How are we OK with people dying like chickens on the side of the road?  Millions of people in this country haven’t even taken a single meal today.  I can’t stand it.  I’m thirty now and I’m struggling.  But I’m still trying to help even though I don’t have money.  I taught myself to treat diabetes with herbs.  I’ve treated ten people so far who can’t afford the hospital.   But I want to do more.  I’ve given myself a timeframe.  I’ve been working at this conservation center for three years now, and I’ve learned a lot.  In a few years I’m going to open my own center.  I can use the profits to build houses for people who have no place to stay.  Each person can stay for a year.  Maybe if they can just rest their head for a month, they’ll find a way to feed themselves.  And if they eat for a week, they’ll start to reason like a human being.  At the very least they’ll see that it’s possible to be loved by someone.  And maybe they’ll realize that God loves them too.(Lagos, Nigeria)




I was a baby when I got married.  I was only thirteen.  I didn’t have an adolescence.  One day I’m a child going to school, and the next day I’m a mother, responsible for a home.  I cried too much.  I didn’t know the person I married.  He turned out to be a cold man.  He had zero communication or understanding.  I suffered for so long, but I endured it all so that I could raise my children well.  But every human has a ceiling, and once you hit it, it’s over.  For three years I planned my escape.  I waited until my children were older.  Then one morning I left the keys on the table, dropped my kids off at school, and headed straight for the courts.  I finally have freedom.  I’m laid back.  I’m relaxed.  I can express my opinion.  I do whatever I want.  I just finished a wonderful vacation in Egypt with my daughter.  Nobody causes me trouble anymore.  These are the best years of my life.  (Cairo, Egypt)




When I was a boy I’d skip school to sell roses on the street.  My parents gave up trying to educate me.  They said: ‘He’s lost his mind over the roses.’  I wanted to be around flowers all the time.  I sold so many that I opened my own kiosk across from a famous country club.  But I could never sell on Fridays.  The police would close our entire street so the governor could visit the club.  But once I ignored their instructions.  It was the day before Mother’s Day.  My biggest day of the year.  So I took a chance and remained open.  When the police found out, they confiscated all my flowers.  They even took my license.  It was a fatal blow.  All my money was in those flowers.  I had piles of them.  So I had to start from zero.  I’m a street vendor again.  For awhile I was ashamed, but I’m fine with it now.  It’s better than working for someone.  I buy the roses I want, and sell them to whoever I want.  Maybe I’ll have a shop again.  But as long as I’m around my roses, I’ll always feel peaceful.  (Cairo, Egypt)




My mom has nobody to care for her but me.  The last stroke affected her brain so badly.  She’s like the living dead.  All she can do now is breathe.  Last month I found a small wound on her toe.  I thought it was something small.  It looked so small.  So I just put a bandage on it.  But it was the beginning of gangrene.  I should have known.  It spread and the doctors had to amputate her leg.  It’s all my fault, but I was under so much pressure.  I’m a single mom.  I work as a housekeeper.  What do I focus on? What do I pay for?  My kids’ education?  Food?  My mom’s care?  It’s just too much.  It’s all on me.  I called my sister last week and screamed at her.  I screamed at her for never calling.  I screamed at her for not helping.  I told her that I wished she would die.   And my wish came true.  Four days ago she passed away.  When I saw her at the morgue, she had no hair, no eyebrows, nothing.  She had been hiding cancer from us.  I feel so guilty.  My wish came true.  But I didn’t know because she never called!  I haven’t eaten since yesterday.  Only a cup of milk.  I can’t keep doing this. It’s too much pressure.  I’m not doing well.  I’m not OK.(Cairo, Egypt)


I read a lot on the subject.  I studied the texts.  And I decided it was permissible to take it off, so that’s what I did.  My mom was terrified of what people would think.  She asked me to delete all our mutual friends on Facebook.  She said if I didn’t wear the hijab, then I couldn’t live at home.  So I packed four big bags and went to live with a friend.  It was the first time I’d ever slept out of my house.  Over the next few weeks, I sent my parents messages every single day.  I always told them where I was, what I was doing, and who I was with.  I wanted to show that I forgave them, and that I was still their girl, and that one day things would be normal again.  They didn’t respond for three months.  Until one holiday my uncle called and invited me home for dinner.  My parents started crying as soon as I walked in the door.  They’d prepared a huge meal.  They said that they didn’t mean it, and that they love me a lot, and that they’re proud of me.  Things are very good now.  We get along even better than when I obeyed.  They see I’m doing great things with my freedom.  I have a great job and I travel.  They’re very proud.  I’ve learned to do what you want in life.  Because if you do, the world will change to match you.  (Alexandria, Egypt)




The entrepreneurial community in Egypt is a bit like a baby.  It’s still learning to speak, and to read, and to understand.  It exists, but only a small number of people have access.  You must have connections. Because without them, it’s impossible to grow a business.  There are too many layers of bureaucracy.  Every decision requires a permit, and every permit requires a signature. A business can be stalled for months waiting on a single approval.  Unless you have connections, then everything can be fixed with a single phone call.  This dynamic must change.  The system needs to work for everybody.  The country will never be competitive unless entrepreneurs are able to move fast.  But I don’t think the answer is government.  The answer is entrepreneurship itself.  Our start-ups must begin making money. Because money means control.  And when entrepreneurs are in control, things will start working.(Cairo, Egypt)




My husband died a long time ago.  He was in a car accident.  My daughter was only four years old at the time, and I was pregnant with my son.  But I overcame it all.  Life is difficult but God is generous.  I found a job working at this building.  I’m an old lady now, but if anything is needed from the store, or anything needs to be cleaned, I can still do it.  I’ve been here for 50 years, in a little apartment on the roof.  I raised my children up there.  All of the people in the building love me.  They’re like my family.  They tell me: ‘Anything you need for your house, just let us know.’  Whenever I’m sick, they always call me.  They say: ‘Where were you yesterday?’  And it’s not just the people in this building.  The whole neighborhood loves me.  I mean, they’re practically my own.  I raised every one of them.   (Cairo, Egypt)


I was married when I was seventeen.  My whole life was my family.  I barely left the house because my husband brought me everything I needed.  I was far too innocent.  I had no idea about anything, but the world has a way of teaching you.  Fifteen years ago my husband died and I had to take the lead of the family.  He owned an upholstery shop.  The workers tried to convince me to let them handle the business, but they were hiding the profits from me.  I had to take over.  There was no other choice.  My kids were still in school and that money belonged to them.  So I began going to the shop every day.  At first the workers tried to box me out.  They knew I didn’t understand the business so they wouldn’t explain anything.  They hid the numbers from me.  And when a client entered the store, they wouldn’t even introduce me as the owner.  But I sat there and watched every move they made.  I memorized everything.  And after forty days, there were some new rules at the shop.  The workers were not allowed to speak to the client directly.(Cairo, Egypt)


I’ve had horrible luck finding a husband.  Most marriages in this country are traditional, and I have a middleman who arranges interviews with potential suitors.  He probably thinks I’m a snob.  Because I either turn the men down or scare them off.  But you should hear the questions they ask me.  Nothing about personality.  Nothing about character.  Everything is about money: ‘What is your salary?’,  ‘Do you have a car?,  ‘Is this your only apartment?’  I used to answer these questions, but I’m much harsher now.  I’ll dismiss them right away.  I’ve had men ask me to stop working.  I had a professor ask me to stop studying because I have more degrees than him.  Another man ended the interview when he learned that my ‘doctorate’ did not mean I was a medical doctor.  It’s ridiculous.  Some friends and family want me to settle for the sake of having children.  But I have a viewpoint, and I’m not going to sacrifice that viewpoint just because I’m getting older.  I believe in marriage.  And I’d like children.  But if it means I have to accept anything, maybe it’s best to not get married at all.(Alexandria, Egypt)


This is my brother.  We’re helping people into their parking spots.  School starts in a few days and we’re trying to raise money for our school fees.  Also I want to get a bicycle because all my friends have bicycles.  They use their bicycles to make me angry because I don’t have one.  But wait until I get my bicycle.  They’ll be so angry.  We’ve been saving our money for three months.  But sometimes we buy Pepsi.  And also peanuts.  And yesterday a street vendor came by with jewelry, and my brother bought me this necklace.  And he also bought me a watch but it broke.  And a ring but I lost it.  He really loves me so much.   (Cairo, Egypt)


He always wanted a daughter.  He tells me that all the time.  My friends think I’m so lucky because a lot of their dads aren’t affectionate.  Some have even been forced to stop studying and get married.  But my father wants me to be successful.  He wants me to live abroad.  More than anything, he’s a friend. There was a time in high school when I was extremely depressed.  Mostly just teenage things.  I felt ugly.  I didn’t have confidence.  But it got so bad that I started having scary thoughts.  And I didn’t want to tell anyone, especially my parents.  I was afraid I’d get locked away in the house.  But one night we were sitting in my bedroom, and I finally let him know.  His reaction wasn’t what I expected.  He didn’t panic or scream.  He was calm.  He just kept holding me and saying: ‘We’ll get through this together.’(Alexandria, Egypt)


Mom said: "You wear this, and you wear that.'"  (Alexandria, Egypt)


I’d always dreamed of getting a college degree, but I got married right after high school.  We started having children right away, so it wasn’t easy to convince my husband to let me study.  The one time I tried to mention it, he immediately said ‘no.’  But a few years later we were in the passport office and I saw an advertisement for a university.  I pulled on his sleeve, pointed at the sign, and said: ‘Lets take a look.  It’s only a look.’  That very same day I enrolled in classes.  Each night I’d wait until 2 AM, after everyone’s demands had been answered, and the whole house was asleep.  Then I’d begin my studying. I’d work until morning, wake the children up, and prepare them for school.  Only then could I rest.  It was exhausting but I was so happy.  It felt like I’d gone back in time and my kids were my siblings.  During my third year I was pregnant again, and I was terrified that I’d go into labor during my final exams.  But I got my diploma.  It was the happiest day of my life.  My husband was thrilled for me.  Everything is different now.  I understand the world.  I used to be afraid to leave the house.  But now I feel powerful.  And it shows.  (Cairo, Egypt)


My parents aren’t giving me the freedom to be responsible.  Mama’s fine.  But Papa is an Egyptian father.  He wants me to always be in a safe, cozy home.  Recently I wanted to go on an educational trip to Sri Lanka.  I begged him.  I said, ‘Please, I’ll be living with a family.  I’ll call you ten times a day.’  But he wouldn’t listen.  I locked myself in my room and cried.  I wanted that experience.  I wanted to meet beautiful people, and eat beautiful food, and take beautiful photos.  I know my dad very well.  He just doesn’t trust people.  He thinks that I’m naïve.  He thinks that everyone who helps you wants something in return.  But that’s not why I help people.  I love people.  I love languages.  I can even speak a little Hindi.  I want to see every village and every city.  I even want to work for NASA one day.  I love physics and astronomy.  But Papa thinks astronomy is a bad idea.  He doesn’t get it.  It’s not that he doesn’t understand the stars.  He just doesn’t understand me.  (Alexandria, Egypt)


I’m from Basra.  In the seventies we were the economic capital of Iraq.  It was beautiful once.  The only city with two rivers.  We had one million people but ten million palm trees.  In those days everyone was optimistic.  Our oil reserves were better than the Saudis.  We assumed the oil would be invested, and that our lives would keep getting better.  But our leaders failed us.  It was war after war.  Without all the fighting, things could have really been great.  But the palm trees are gone now.  There’s no potable water.  We have a shortage of electricity.  Healthcare is very poor, and cancer is everywhere because the Americans used radioactive bombs.  Our whole land is contaminated.  The food that comes from the soil is poison.  But please visit, you’ll be welcome.  The people are friendly.  You’ll be met with hospitality.  We understand that governments are the warmongers.  You’re victims just like us.  (Cairo, Egypt)


I have two young boys.  And every time we go somewhere, I’m not even thinking about my fun.  I only think about their fun.  I’ve been to the zoo a million times because the small one loves the monkeys.  Last week we went to see Hotel Transylvania III.  I’ve already seen two of those things.  This time the monsters took a vacation.  To be honest, I don’t even think there was a story.  The monsters just kept interacting with people on the boat.  I wasn’t really paying attention, but the boys loved it.  I enjoyed their reactions more than the movie.  I watched their faces the entire time.  And whenever they laughed, I laughed.   (Cairo, Egypt)


My mom is in prison.  I see her every fifteen days.  My siblings take me to visit her, but then they leave me when it’s over.  My grandmother doesn’t want me.  My uncle beats me up.  I have nowhere to live.  The only person I have in my life is my mom.  Every time I visit, she asks me if I’m staying with relatives, and I tell her: ‘Mom, nobody wants me.  I have no one.’  I sleep on the street.  I can’t go to school.  I just hang out with the older kids.  Sometimes we wash cars together for money.  Last week I was washing a man’s car and he bought me clothes and food.  He told me I could sleep at his house.  So maybe I’ll start going there.(Cairo, Egypt)


Papa loves Ibrahim.  He’s my beloved.  He’s my whole world.  I have four other sons, but I love him a little more because he needs it a little more.  The doctors recommended an abortion but I wouldn’t hear it.  He was only three pounds when he was born.  He needed half a liter of milk per day.  I’d skip my own breakfast just to buy it for him.  I took him to nurseries when he was very young because I wanted him to be comfortable with other children.  I found a charity that offered speech classes, and I took him five days a week.  Anything that I have, I will give him.  I only worry what will happen when I’m gone.  I’m getting old.  I had a major heart episode two weeks ago.  I collapsed in the street and all I could think about was him.  My wife can't support him alone, and I’m afraid other people won’t be as nice to him.  If someone makes him angry, he’s very difficult to control.  But I have patience.  I’ll hold him.  I’ll pat him on the shoulder.  I’ll do whatever he needs.  I just hope he'll always have someone to do the same. (Cairo, Egypt)




People scream from their balconies, ‘Don’t play here!’  But where else are we supposed to play?  And they tell us: ‘Don’t play so loud!’  But how do you play not loud?(Cairo, Egypt)


My father was very strict with us.  His workshop was across the street from our apartment building, and he’d scream if he saw us peeking out the window.  It was like a prison.  We’d just stay at home, make him tea and food, and watch TV.  Back then it was mostly black and white movies staring Egyptian icons.  My favorites were the love stories.  But it was just a fantasy for me, because my father swatted away all my suitors.  During that time I fell in love with my grandmother’s neighbor.  He was tall, light-skinned, and wore his hair combed back.  I’d pretend to visit her just so I could see him.  I’d wear my loveliest dresses, get my hair done, and stand outside his window. He’d always smile at me.  I was pretty myself back then.  I loved him.  And he loved me.  He told my friend that he wanted to marry me.  But my father married me off to my cousin, and that’s when the tragedy began.  I gave birth to one child after another.  I’ve had to work full time because my husband is so useless.  He’s a total bum.  But I still live next door to my first love.  He has a university degree.  And every time he sees me, he smiles.   (Cairo, Egypt)


My son was crazy about a woman.  He spent a bunch of money on her.  He even asked her to marry him.  But she didn’t want him and it drove him mad.  He stopped going to work.  His clothes became ripped and his beard grew long.  He looked like someone you’d see in the street.  His personality changed too.  He grew aggressive.  He thought everyone was trying to fight him.  It broke my heart.  It felt like my son was slipping away.  He was only thirty and had given up on the world.  Everyone told me he was cursed.  I tried everything.  I prayed to God.  I went to mosques.  I went to spiritual advisors.  I gave money to psychics, but nothing worked.  Then one day I was sitting in this very spot, and a doctor stopped to visit.  He asked me what was wrong.  I told him everything, and he asked to see my son.  I’ll never forget that day.  That man is the reason for everything good in my life.  He brought my son back to me.  My son is taking medicine now.  He’s working.  He’s shaved.  He’s laughing again.  I still believe that God is the one who healed him.  But thank God for good doctors.(Cairo, Egypt)
We keep waiting for her to turn 78.  For the last twenty years she’s been telling people that she’s 77.  It got a little awkward when some of her kids reached their seventies.  We told her, ‘Mom, it’s going to seem like you gave birth when you were five.’  But she didn’t care.  She’d rationalize it by saying: ’77 is the age I feel.’  She fell and broke her hip two months ago.  But until then she’d always been extremely active.  She’d meet her friends for coffee.  She was on the board of two charities.  She was always alert and kept her sense of humor.  After the accident I drove her to the hospital, and I couldn’t convince her that we needed to tell the doctor she was 97.  And when she finally agreed, she wasn’t too happy about it.  (Cairo, Egypt)




It was basic self-defense.  He threw a big ass rock at me.  Like half a brick.  So I beat him, took his bike, and took his sneakers.  His jaw got wired.  He ended up in some sort of group home.  I was seventeen at the time but, yeah, I’m proud of it.  Technically I was defending myself, but the judge didn’t see it like that.  I was defending my pride.  I was defending my ego.  They gave me seven years.  Now I can’t even get a job.  That bitch ruined my life.  I don’t know why he had to call the police.  He was a rat.  He snitched.  I’d never call the police if that happened to me.  That’s not what you do.  If you’ve got a problem, you just find the guy and fuck him up.


Once when I was fourteen I was getting on the Q Train in Brooklyn.  It was two o’clock in the afternoon.  I was going to a friend’s house.  I swiped my card quickly because the train was coming.  And as I ran to catch it, an undercover police officer just grabbed me.  I remember he was wearing a Jake Plummer Michigan football jersey.  I told him that I’d paid my fare.  I told him he could check my card.  But he pushed me against the wall and started searching through my stuff.  I’ve probably been searched about half a dozen times in my life.  So I don’t have a lot of faith in the system.  I know a lot of people in prison are just unlucky.  Right now I’m finishing up my Masters’ in accounting and my goal is to own my tax firm.  I’d love to employ formally incarcerated individuals one day.  It’s so hard for them to find employment, but I can teach them to do taxes.  It’s something anyone can learn.  They can provide an excellent service, and their history wouldn’t make a difference.


Social media isn’t evil.  There are neuroscientists in some of these companies, but for the most part I don’t think it was done maliciously.  But advertising is the business model.  And if advertising is the business model, our attention becomes the product.  Two variables matter to the bottom line: the amount of users and the amount of time they spend on platform.  And what gets measured gets optimized.  So our phones have become slot machines.  We scroll and scroll and scroll, and eventually we hit something that gives us a dopamine reward.  It’s by design.  Because slot machines make more money in the US than theme parks, baseball, and movies combined.  Both Vegas and Silicon Valley know that our brains can be manipulated if presented with a certain set of choices.  Obviously addictiveness isn’t the only feature of these platforms. They’ve empowered so many voices.  I’d just love to live in a world where our most influential technology didn’t measure its success by the time it took from us.


I thought I could resist the rat race.  I thought: ‘I’m a unique guy.  I like to mix things up.’  So I fought it for a long time.  I stayed up past my bedtime.  I listened to music really loud in the morning.  I rode my bike to work.  I always tried to find new places for lunch.  I joined a softball team.  I went to concerts on weeknights.  But I just got tired.  I ended up staying later at the office.  And I fell into a rhythm: come home, watch TV, and go to sleep.  I’m not sure I can do this for the next forty years.  I just miss waking up and not knowing what’s going to happen.  It’s never explicitly said to you that you need to live on your own, and have a good life, and meet someone, and have kids, and have those kids be more successful than you are.  But you feel the pressure all the time.  You feel it every time someone asks how your job is going.  Right now everyone in this park is taking a break from the thing they have to get back to.  It’s comforting in a way.  There’s a sense of solidarity in it.  We’re all feeling the same obligation.
My grandmother was the first in our family to discover it.  One day she joined a meditation in the park.  She was taking so many medications at the time, but she threw them all away and never took another trip to the hospital.  That was before the crackdown.  At one time were one hundred million followers of Falun Gong in China.  It’s a peaceful religion.  But the following grew too big.  Our teacher seemed like a threat to the government.  They said crazy things on state media.  They called it a cult.  They said we’re terrorists and that we kill our parents.  They began to arrest us.  They even harvested our organs.  I know it sounds crazy, but you can Google it.  We tried to resist.  We practiced inside our home.  We secretly handed out fliers to push back against the propaganda.  But they caught me on camera.  Everywhere there are cameras.  They followed me to my home.  They shoved me in their car.  For eight months I was in detention.  The first thing they did was take a sample of my blood.  For hours every day they put us in a room and forced us to watch television about how to be a good citizen.  If anyone looked away, the whole group was punished.  Eventually my family bribed the court with huge money and they let me go.  But for three years I had to write a letter every month saying that I am a guilty person.  When my probation ended, I left the country.


I never thought I’d come back to New York.  I have a lot of bad memories here.  It can be an ugly place.  My ex-husband lives here.  On September 11th I was on the street below the second tower.  So there are things I’d just prefer not to remember.  But recently my mother got sick and I came home to take care of her. I was in a bit of a rut at the time.  I’d fallen away from my passions.  I was just working to pay the rent.  And one evening I was walking by the river and I passed a place called Hudson River Community Sailing.  They offered free sailing lessons.  I don’t know why I stopped.  I was intellectually convinced that sailing was not for me.  I was getting older.  I was out of shape.  But I decided to give it a try.  And I got hooked on it.  I got kinda obsessed with learning to sail.  I remember the first time I was out there alone.  It felt amazing.  I was in the middle of the Hudson, the wind was blowing, I could see the whole city, and my hand was on the tiller.  It seemed like I was doing something impossible.  I’m not white.  I’m not male.  I don’t own a boat.  I don’t even have money.  But I’m in New York City and I’m fucking sailing.


The vibe was in the air.  You know it.  Kids know.  I wasn’t welcome or wanted.  My mom felt trapped.  She didn’t want her husband and she didn’t want kids.  She viewed me as a problem.  Everything that went wrong was my fault.  There was never a ‘How was your day?’ or ‘I love you.’  I wouldn’t even call it a childhood.  I never had a chance to be a kid.  So I started having sex very young.  I was only twelve but I was looking for it.  I met him in the men’s room of a movie theater.  He was a drifter.  I never felt hurt, or forced, or manipulated.  He never lured me with candy.  I didn’t even know the word ‘pedophile’ existed.  I was just thankful for the closeness.  I visited him on the weekends.  There wasn’t much conversation.  He never asked me about my week.  He never asked me about school.  What can I say?  It was what it was.  It wasn’t right or wrong to me.  It was a comfort.


When I came here I was alone.  I was sixteen and didn’t speak any English.  I remember on the first day of school, some guy was making fun of my younger brother and I punched him.  A few guys saw what was happening and ran down the hall to help.  They backed me up.  And afterward, they said: ‘We want you to join our group.’  So I started hanging out with them.  There were a lot of parties and girls.  It wasn’t bad at first.  A few times they asked me to punch someone in the mouth.  But the farther I got in, the crazier shit got.  I started using rocks and bats on people.  I just followed orders and never asked questions.  Then one day they asked me to attack a guy from our gang.  He was one of us.  And they wouldn’t even tell me why.  I realized that if they’d do it to him, they’d do it to me too.  So I left.  Whenever I see kids in the street now, I try to tell them: ‘Go back home.  Listen to your family.  Cause if anything happens— if you end up in the hospital or in jail, nobody from your gang will visit you.  And if you get killed, they won’t be the ones crying.


After the divorce I threw myself into work.  I’m in residency to be a psychiatrist, and I found that I could forget my problems if I focused on my patients.  But I’d come home feeling numb.  I wouldn’t sleep well.  I lost fifty pounds.  I kept convincing myself I was fine because I was still being so productive.  But when I started having thoughts of suicide, I knew I’d reached my tipping point.  I confided to my program director that I was going through a major depressive episode.  She supported me 100% and referred me to the psychiatrist I see today.  When I’m ready to get my license, there will be a question on the application that says: ‘Have you ever had a mental illness that impaired your ability to treat patients?’  I’m going to answer ‘no.’  Because being a patient has been a revelatory experience.  It’s taught me how difficult it can be to verbalize what you’re feeling.  And it’s taught me the power of denial, even for someone who studies the symptoms.  When I began the medication it was like a veil had been lifted from my eyes.  So much of what I know about depression, I learned by getting through it.




When it starts to get crowded, I’ll leave.  Because I can’t stand the looks.  You know how many people were gonna sit on that bench over there, but decided against it, because of what’s sitting right here?  I drank myself into homelessness.  So I’m not looking for violins or tissues.  But I used to be in the mainstream.  I was somebody once, and people used to look at me without any barriers or animosity.  I can tell you this: when John Lennon sings ‘Imagine,’ it’s complete bullshit.  He was living in the Dakota when he wrote that, overlooking Central Park.  Imagine no possessions?  He should have written a song about all the wonderful things that he had.  Imagine nothing to live or die for?  No Yoko?  No career?  No child?  No fame?  No status?  Well here I am.  There’s no peace here.


My parents are from the same small village in Mexico.  My mother was the daughter of a successful farmer.  My father was very poor.  Supposedly they never spoke to each other.  My father says he would sit on a rock and admire her from far away.  She lived in a big house.  She could barely leave because her father was very strict.  So they came to America for two different reasons.  My father came for work and my mother came for excitement.  They both ended up in New York, working at a small Mexican restaurant in Harlem.  My grandmother always laughs at my mother.  She says: ‘You ran all the way to America to marry a boy from the village.’


We had five kids together, but she’s a Gemini so she’s two faced.  She bought me a Greyhound ticket and sent me away.  Never told me why.  Could have been the not working.  Could have been the weed smoking.  But the worst part is that she threw me on child support.  Now I’ve got a $100,000 lien on my name.  It comes off the top of my check.  I could work all week and bring home $40.  So I’m better off not working.  It’s bullshit.  The government wasn’t in bed when I was fucking her.  Now they want to control me.  I don’t believe in their laws.  I follow natural law.  The Law of the Ancients.  I just have to find a way to disconnect from this social security number.


The second I started it was off to the races.  I was twelve or thirteen.  It’s the age you begin to realize that there’s some sort of norm.  You notice there’s a fellowship of people who can engage with each other, and these people tend to act or dress a certain way.  I yearned for social interactions.  I’d spend hours replaying certain situations, trying to figure out what to say or do differently.  I hated what I saw in the mirror.  And it didn’t help that I was a middle schooler in the closet.  I think the downers slowed me down to a train of thought I could handle.  They made me less inward focused.  I stole the alcohol from my parents.  And I’d sell shit from the house for the weed and pills, or coke, or even crack.  My parents couldn’t trust me for five minutes.  They put a pool alarm on my door.  Then they took the door off completely.  I told myself they were controlling and delusional, until finally I broke down crying and asked for help.  Next month will be three years sober.  In the program we have a saying: ‘If you follow the rules, you’ll get a life beyond your wildest dreams.’  It sounds a little ‘culty’ but it’s true.  Of course my wildest dreams weren’t the highest hopes.  I just wanted the ability to interact with people.  And I wanted people who care about me.  Now I have both, and it’s a beautiful thing.


The first thing I noticed was a tremor.  I’m a computer programmer and I kept accidentally hitting the shift key.  Then I started to lose my sense of smell. And finally came the depression.  My wife made me see a doctor.  She said to me: ‘Either you get on an antidepressant, or I’m going to.’  That's when I learned I had Parkinson's.  Over the years my tremors got worse.  My voice got quieter.  I had to quit working.  My dopamine levels fell so low that I lost communication between my brain and face.  I couldn't express any emotion.  My daughter grew up without seeing me smile.  I probably seemed distant.  A lot of times I felt like I couldn't fit in with the rest of the family.  Then a few months ago I had an experimental surgery.  They inserted a wire in my head that stimulates the brain with electricity.  Now all my emotions are coming back.  I’m more talkative.  I have more energy.  I’ve cried more in the last few months than I have in the past thirty years.  And for the first time in her entire life, my daughter can finally see me smile.


I got assaulted in the swimming pool this morning.  I was in the middle lane, like always.  It’s my lane.  And this woman swims right at me while I’m making my turn.  Physical contact.  I didn’t handle that well, because I’m a Libra.  I took it to another level.  I kicked my pace into second gear.  Next thing you know, she’s right on top of me, pushing me out of the lane.  I had to get management involved.  It ruined my morning.  I even cancelled my trip to the beach.  But then I went to yoga and calmed down for a hot minute.  And now I’ve invented another activity.  I went to the Whole Foods’ salad bar and created my own appetizer: Brown Rice Gluten Free Brown Chip Tapenade.  So I still got my fun in.


I’m a year out from breast cancer.  They caught it early but it still required two surgeries and radiation.  My body took a long time to heal and I lost all my stamina.  Before the diagnosis, I was running half-marathons.  I was kickboxing and lifting weights every day.  But the treatment really wiped me out.  And it was really tough for me because I’ve always been such an active person.  Exercise is how I lift my spirit.  But it got to the point where I could barely walk twenty minutes on a treadmill.  There were days I thought I’d never be my old self again.  But I’m starting to get my health back on.  I’m at about 75 percent now.  I’m lifting heavier weights.  I’m starting to feel strong.  I even signed up for an obstacle race next Saturday.  There are 27 obstacles, and I’m going to do as many of them as I can.  I’m getting back to my glory days.  Actually I’m going further than that.  I’m going to 120%.


I’d always play stickball in the streets, but my mother took me to see my first real baseball game in 1952.  It was the Brooklyn Dodgers: Jackie Robinson, Pee Wee Reese, Duke Snider.  I’d seen them all on television, but it was a strange feeling actually being there.  The ballpark was a bigger than I thought.  The crowd was louder than I thought.  I was hooked.  I’ve been to over one hundred games since then.  I’ve been to Cooperstown five different times.  I don’t get to the ballpark much anymore, but I listen to every Yankee game on the radio.  I like to listen outside.  I’ll pick a different spot each time.  Sometimes I sit down by the river.  Once I went to Coney Island.  I pick my bench based on where the wind is blowing.  Occasionally people from church will walk by.  All my family has gone or moved away.  It does get lonely sometimes, mainly when I’m inside.  But never when I’m listening to the ballgame.


I’ve worked as a doula for over twenty years.  I’ve attended over 400 births.  My job is primarily to support the mother.  And I try to bring a spiritual element into what can seem like a clinical experience.  I never speak the language of the clinician.  Because if you can change the language, you can change the energy.  Birth is a mystery initiation.  It’s the transition between spiritual consciousness and earthly consciousness.  I tell the mother to ignore the machines.  Ignore the beeping and the charts.  Technology can seem sexy but it’s really a bullshit representation of what’s going on.  Nothing is broken and nothing needs fixing, because birth is not pathology.  It’s a beautiful design that’s worked since the beginning of time.  So just tune into your baby who is a sentient, conscious being, and do this thing together.


I got divorced when my daughter was very young.  So she’s kinda been my whole life since she was five.  It’s just the two of us.  I go to work, I come home, and she’s always there, maybe a little less now because she’s eighteen, but you know what I mean.  She’s about to leave for college in Chicago.  And it’s a little scary to send her off into the big world.  But she’ll be finding her tribe.  She’ll be learning about herself.  I’m excited for her. And I’m excited for me, too.  Because I think we both have a much bigger world ahead of us.  I’ve been holding myself back a little bit.  I’ve always wanted my daughter to know she’s my first priority, and that’s become a bit of an excuse.  An excuse not to travel.  An excuse to be overly selective in my relationships.  An excuse to not pursue new opportunities. For the longest time, if I said ‘no,’ it meant I was being a good mother.  But now if I say ‘no,’ it means I lack courage.


It’s basically the newborn stage forever.  He has both epilepsy and a very rare genetic disorder.  He can’t feed himself.  He’s not toilet trained.  He can’t speak.  He can’t tell us if he’s sad, or grumpy, or hungry.  He’s had more doctor appointments than both of us combined in our entire life.  We’re actually heading to a neurologist appointment right now.  The most difficult thing is finding peace and serenity.  Every time he has a seizure, I’m afraid it will be fatal.  People with his disorder don’t live very long.  But the disorder also makes him very happy.  So he’s oblivious and enjoying the world.  But I’ve been traumatized.  My husband is so supportive but a lot of days I feel completely alone.  There have been times when I’ve filmed myself on my phone just to have someone to talk to.  But every day I can choose to not be overwhelmed by my anxiety and fear.  Instead of curling up to cry, I can choose to meet him with joy where he’s at.  I felt loved by God when he was born.  I was working as a special education teacher, so I thought that God had given me a perfect fit.  We named him Iman Yageen, which means ‘faith without doubt.’   That name has become a reminder to me.  I say it all day long when I’m trying to get his attention.  And it reminds me that one day I’m going to hear him speak.  If not here, then in heaven.


Too many people are faking the funk.  I was at the club the other night.  And I’m scrolling through my Instagram and I see a post from a girl I know.  And she’s at the same club.  And in this photo she’s holding up a bottle, acting crazy, looking like she doesn’t have a care in the world.  But the club wasn’t even rocking like that.  It was a Thursday.  So I look across the room and there she is: sitting down, looking bored, scrolling through her phone, and clearly faking the funk.


I’d been putting it off because I didn’t have the money or time.  But a program at the VA offered to help with tuition, so I enrolled in Empire State College.  I wasn’t there to play.  I wasn’t there to party.  My only goal was to get an education. And more than the degree, I discovered that I needed the people.  I met people at college that I could bounce ideas off.  People who could challenge me to go further with my interests.  Two of my mentors were Dr. Fullard and Professor Whiteside.  Both of them had retired from corrections so they had a passion for helping black males.  They’d tell me: I notice you have a strong ability for ‘such and such,’ and I’d love to see you develop it further.  So that’s what I did.  Even though I majored in business, I found myself learning all about history and economics.  Right now I’m reading a book about the Haitian Revolution.  It has nothing to do with my major, but it’s important to me.  It’s part of my personal curriculum.  And that’s the most important thing that I got from college.  I got a degree.  But more importantly I developed a personal curriculum that I’ll be using for the rest of my life.


I’ve lived here my whole life.  I’m ready to leave.  I just graduated college and I’d love to experience a new city.  But I’m stuck.  My dad is trying to become a citizen, and I need to stay in the city because I’m the one petitioning on his behalf.  We’ve been waiting for five years already.  We’ve spent so much money.  But it’s the least I can do for him.  I’ve seen where he lived in Mexico: tiny houses, dirt floors, no shoes.  He was the youngest of twelve.  His family couldn’t afford to educate him.  So he came here when he was seventeen and worked as a migrant worker in California.  He slept in train cars and ate food out of the trash.  Even now he works fourteen hours a day.  He comes home, we talk a bit, and he goes to sleep.  It’s been that way my entire life.  He’s turning fifty soon and he’d love to start his own business.  So I hope he gets his citizenship.  It’s a little dangerous because he’s on the radar now.  They have his fingerprints.  But he’s got a son that fought in Afghanistan.  And now he’s got a daughter that graduated from NYU, so I think he deserves to stay.


I danced with him for ten years before I knew his name.


When I was younger I fell in love with a black man, which my mother didn’t like.  She tried to tell me that it would cause my grandmother to die of a heart attack.  But we married anyway.  And after having two children we got divorced.  My mother especially didn’t like that.  She was appalled.  She didn’t believe in divorce.  She told me that I couldn’t possibly love my children.  Our relationship never got better.  Over the years we’d have a weekly phone call.  We’d reenact the same conversations again and again.  I wanted her to acknowledge that I’d lived an interesting life.  It made me angry that she saw me as deficient.  I wanted her to see that my life had meaning, even if I was on my own.  She’s 89 now.  Two years ago she was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s, which has made her even blunter with her opinions.  She now openly expresses her preference for my brother.  It’s becoming clear that she won't change her mind about me.  And it carries a sting.  Because I guess we never stop hoping to be understood.


I’m much younger than I thought I would be.  When I was in college, I thought 43 seemed so old.  It just seemed everything would be set by then and my life would be over.  I thought I’d only be doing things that I had to do.  Everything is a choice when you’re young.  But then you graduate from school and make your big decisions: your career, your marriage, your kids. And it seems that with each big decision, you have less opportunity for choice.  But I still have a lot of choices.  It’s just not all about me anymore.  I enjoy choosing ways for my kids to experience new things.  I’m thinking about bringing them to the Ben and Jerry’s factory in Vermont next weekend.  I think they’ll get a kick out of it.  I can still remember my daughter’s face the first time she saw Yankee Stadium.  I’d already been dozens of times, but it almost felt like the first time for me too.  And I love taking my son to his soccer games.  He’s only six so he has no clue how to play.   But he’s decided that his job is to run back and forth in front of the goal.  He basically invented defense and I got to watch it happen.  These things are a lot of fun for me.  When I was young, I imagined they’d feel like obligations.  But they’re not.  They’re choices.


It’s so hard to ask for help.  Because you’re supposed to be ‘Mommy.’  And you never want to say: ‘I need help being Mommy.’  I carried this person for nine months.  I knew she was coming.  I felt like I should be able to handle it and I didn’t want to ask other people to stop their lives.  Especially if they had no part in making this baby.  But eventually I had to give in.  I’m just one person and being ‘Mama’ 24/7 can make you crazy.  I found myself getting frustrated that other people were going on with their lives.  I’d let things fester.  And it was unhealthy for my relationships.  I’d get heated with my mother and boyfriend.  Instead of beginning with ‘Can you help?’  I’d lose my temper, and jump straight to: ‘Why aren’t you helping?’


Recently I went home to Dublin for six months to spend time with my father.  He’s in the late stages of Alzheimer’s.  While I was there, I noticed that the bank where I worked was moving along fine without me.  It made me realize that my contribution was dispensable.  So when the sabbatical ended, I just couldn’t go back.  My friend happened to approach me around that time with an opportunity to start a company.  We’re developing an app to help manage the construction process.  It feels good to be learning so much again.  Everything was so specialized at the bank.  There was an expert for everything.  Everyone just stuck to the things they were good at and recognized for.  But there’s no bureaucracy in our start-up.  It’s just the two of us.  There’s only what needs to be done.  I can last about a year before things get financially stressful.  I’m hoping that the company will be viable by then.  Because even if it doesn't make a lot of money, as long as it survives, I’ll have been a part of creating something.


I wasn’t planning on dressing up as a clown.  I’d been drinking all night in Poughkeepsie and I somehow ended up at the train station, so I decided to take the 4 AM train into the city.  I had $200 in my pocket from some gutter cleaning work.  I immediately spent the first $60 on brunch and Bloody Marys.  Then I walked by Party City and I had the idea to get a clown wig.  But then I noticed the suspenders, and the top, and the bow tie, and some balloons.  I bought a red nose too but I’m not sure what happened to it.  I left the store with about $100, which was enough to get some shoes and a half pint of Seagram’s.  I ended the day with $10, but that got lost when I passed out in Times Square.  Now I'm trying to figure out how to get home.  I need to stop drinking.


I’ve known her since I was seven.  I had a crush on her even back then.  But she lived back in the Dominican Republic, so I’d only get to see her during the summer.  We just got tired of being apart.  So I asked her to marry me.  My parents were against it.  I was twenty-one.  I was going to City College.  I was still living at home and they thought I wasn’t ready.  And there was definitely some truth to that.  I had to drop out of school once she moved in with us.  I couldn’t handle everything.  At first I was depressed but I started to progress quickly at work.  I got raise after raise.  We moved out of my parents’ house and got a small apartment in the Bronx.  Now I’m studying to get my electrical license.  I've seen a lot of the guys I work with start their own companies.  You’ve just got to want it.  You’ve got to want to move up, and you can find a way.  The marriage has been great and it’s been tough.  We have a two-year-old daughter now.  It’s a lot of work.  But it’s also awesome to go home everyday and find two people who love me.


I’m trying to finish writing a book.  I’m on my fourth draft and have 70,000 words so far.  It’s an adventure tale set in Jamaica.  My main character is a twelve-year old girl named Kristi.  She’s the same age that I was when I left the island.  I really want to write something that resonates back home.  I’ve been researching the history and folklore of the country.  I’m trying to get the dialect just right.  I want Jamaicans to recognize themselves and be proud.  I've been working on it for four years now.  I’ve given up on so many other things.  I gave up on being a doctor.  I’ve given up writing other stories.  I lost sixty pounds last year, but before that I’d given up on so many diets.  So I’m determined to finish this.  I try not to think about other goals for the book.  Because the more I need from it, the more I freeze up.  I have a lot of debt.  I have a lot of relatives in Jamaica that need money.  But if I start writing to feel hopeful about my financial situation, the words won’t come.  So my goal is just to finish my fourth draft.  And if that happens, my next goal is to get a rejection letter that tells me something I can improve.


A few years ago I get a call from my wife, and she tells me that her aunt is going through a tough time and needs a place to stay.  So I agreed to let the aunt stay with us for a few months.  ‘I’m doing a good deed,’ I thought.  But things got weird after she moved in.  She was a really quiet lady.  And she always seemed to be watching me.  I’d be walking around downstairs, and I’d notice the aunt peering down on me from the upper level.  Like I was some sort of intruder.  But I think to myself: ‘Just ignore it.  She’s going through a rough time.’  Then one night I wake up at 2:30 AM and the aunt is standing over my bed, saying some sort of prayer over me.  And I sleep completely naked.  And I have no idea how long this woman has been there.  And I wake up my wife, who starts dragging the aunt out of the room, and the whole time the woman is screaming at me: ‘I know who you are!  You aren’t fooling anyone!’  It was terrifying.  My wife and I separated four months later.  Things hadn’t been going great, but that aunt definitely flushed the toilet.


I haven’t worked with an American for three years.  I’m a union drywall finisher, and my job has completely been taken over by Central and South Americans.  All of them have union cards now.  Can you imagine being the only one on your crew who doesn’t speak Spanish?  There’s nobody to talk to.  You have no clue what people are saying.  It’s isolating.  And all of them stick together too.  My last three foremen were from El Salvador, Paraguay, and Peru.  And whenever work dries up, I’m the first one trimmed from the crew.  Always.  No matter how hard I work.  I used to get angry about it.  It felt like I’d been sold out by the mayor and the union bosses.  I even started having racist thoughts.  But that’s not me, man.  I know they aren’t bad people.  They’re just sticking together like any of us would.  How can you blame them?  My parents were immigrants.  I grew up in New York.  I’ve got friends from all over the world.  So I’m not going to start thinking like that.  I’m not going there.  That’s not who I am.


We’re going to a new school for kindergarten.  They make you wear green clothes and there are fishy games with fish that eat numbers.  We’re going to be in different classes.  We’re not sure what that’s going to be like.  But we’re only a little scared, because we can see each other at lunch and recess.


I had to take a bike ride to get away from my teenage daughter.  She missed the deadline for her college application, but she lied and told me that she’d sent it in on time.  I believed her.  I decided to give her space and let her do it on her own.  Then yesterday I found a letter saying that her application came too late.  So I cooked her dinner.  I let her have a nice meal.  Then I served her the letter for dessert.  We started arguing.  She told me that she wants to take a semester off.  She thinks I’m bossing her around and she wants to do things her own way.  But I worked two jobs for this girl.  I raised her on my own.   I’ve given her everything.  She was born at 11:58 PM, two minutes before my birthday.  She looks just like me.  She acts just like me.  And she’s stubborn like me.  Whenever we butt heads I think, ‘Oh my God.  I’m Angie.  I’m fighting with my eighteen-year-old self.’ Except I was already pregnant with her older brother by then.  And I just want things to be easier for her.


I’ve been crocheting since I was 15.  I started out with patterns from the magazines but there was one point where I just said ‘screw this’ and started designing everything myself.  I’ve got twelve giant tubs of yarn at home.  Everything I make is one of a kind, even if it’s a shawl.  My shawl is going to have a slightly different color or slightly different stitch than any other shawl.  I’ve crocheted hundreds of Christmas presents.  I crocheted the sweater I’m wearing.  I even helped crochet a sweater for a huge water tower.  My section alone took three weeks.  The theme of the Crochet Guild convention last year was ‘under the sea,’ so I knitted 110 sea horse pins.  And right now I’m working on a mermaid tail for the daughter of the niece of my brother-in-law.
I started my career as a teller at a community bank in Florida.  I was in my early thirties.  At the time I had a young child and I just needed a way to pay my rent and car payment.  But I kept moving up.  I wouldn’t say I’m overly ambitious.  It didn’t come from a place of ‘I need more.’  I just have a lot of energy.  And I’d always ask the next question or apply for the next job.  So I worked my way up to CEO.  It was demanding but I enjoyed the position.  I was handling it quite well until a few years ago when my husband passed away.  Then my mother.  And then my best friend.  All of this happened in a single year.  I’d never even lived alone before.  Suddenly I felt unanchored.  I reached this place of ‘what do I do now?’  I couldn’t go back to making more money.  So I decided to make a change.  I went back to college to get a Master of Public Administration.  And right now I’m actually on the lunch hour for my final class.  I’ve already got a job waiting on me back home.  I’m the new Director of Broward County's Business Council on Homelessness.  We’re working toward getting homeless people into permanent housing.  And I’m really excited.  I want to do a great job.  I’m in a place where I can change some lives.  It feels like I've moved from success to significance.
I love walking around the city.  I catch the Metro North train at 11:40 every morning. I go to the same gym that I’ve been going to for forty years.  Then I just start walking.  If you take big strides it really stretches you out.  And there are millions of other people walking around.  You never feel alone.  People smile at you.  On weekends I’ll bring my granddaughters with me and we’ll tour different neighborhoods.  We’ve seen ten or twelve so far.  Sometimes I get to borrow them for the whole afternoon.  But they’re at sleep away camp right now so I’m missing them a lot.  And that’s about it.  I do a little shopping at the thrift store.  I stop and read the paper.  I eat at outdoor restaurants.  It’s simple but I found what makes me happy and I’m doing it.  And when I’m heading home at night, sometimes I think: ‘I just had the best day of my life.’
I’m a single father raising a teenager.  We’re meeting here in a few minutes to go on a run.  I’m trying to teach him discipline and focus.  He’s had some problems paying attention in school, but I don’t want to put him on medication.  His mother and I divorced when he was four.  She’s a good person.  She’s very appreciative of what I’ve done.  She just wasn’t ready to be a parent.  I was in a much better place.  So she didn’t fight me on custody.  But it scares me to think if she had.  The courts are set up against men.  They almost always determine that women should raise kids and men should pay child support.  I don’t understand it.  There’s a big push to see women as equal workers.  Why can't men be equal parents?"
I took him to see Brokeback Mountain when it came out.  I thought I was challenging him with the choice.  But at the end of the film, he turned to me and said: ‘That’s me.’  We’d been married for thirty years.  Our kids were still young.  I didn’t know what to do.  Do I leave?  Do I stay?  We were ex-pats in another country at the time, so we were all alone.  I had nobody to talk to.  We went to a therapist to see if it was possible to stay together, and she told us: ‘I’ve seen it work.  But only if one person is very discrete and the other is very tolerant.’  So I agreed to try.  It’s been ten years.  It’s been exhausting in a lot of ways.  I asked too many questions at first.  I made myself miserable.  Now I give him a lot of space.  And I get a lot of space in return.  I’ve been traveling alone for about two months now.  I know what’s going on back home but I don’t ask about it.  My friends ask me why I don’t move on with my life.  I don’t know the answer.  Maybe I’m just too afraid to be alone at this age.  But I still feel like he’s my soul mate.  We have the same view of the world.  We both love children.  We love traveling and good food.  He really is a good man.  He’s just gay.  And we’ve had such a good life together, I’m just not ready to stop sharing it.
So one day I’m sitting here talking to this lady, and I’m eating a sandwich.  And the lady says to me: ‘There’s a sparrow sitting on your sandwich.’  And I think, ‘Wow.  That’s pretty thrilling.’  So I began to feed it.  And that sparrow started spreading the word, and I developed a bit of a reputation in the sparrow community.  And suddenly I become the sparrow guy.  There’s like sixty of them waiting for me every morning.  All these benches are covered in shit.
My superpower is fire.  It’s inside my hands but I only use it on bullies.  My dad is a superhero too.  His power is minding his own business.
My wife and I were in our late thirties when we met.  Kids just weren’t in the cards for us.  I always thought I would have been a good dad, but time just went by and it never happened.  So we raised a little family of dachshunds instead.  We got Ozzie and Eva shortly after getting together.  They both lived for thirteen years.  Having two extra lives in the house was a wonderful thing.  They needed to be cared for.  They gave and received love.  I imagine that it’s a little like having a kid.  When Oscar passed away, I was so distraught that I passed out on the floor of the vet.  Eva lived for another year, and after she died, we decided to wait before adopting again.  We lasted about a year.  Pepper came from a high kill shelter in Los Angeles.  She was terrified for the first few weeks and wouldn’t come near us.  But she trusts us now.  She is definitely a Daddy’s girl.
My son is on the computer all the time.  He’ll start as soon as he gets home from school and goes until bedtime.  It’s some sort of adventure game involving teamwork.  He wears a headset and plays with his friends.  His goal was to go outside more this summer but that hasn’t happened.  Maybe I enabled him.  I held off on getting him a phone and computer, but at some point every other kid has got one.  And you don’t want him to fall behind with technology.  He’s a good kid.  His grades are pretty good.  His teachers love him.  He’s very polite.  He helps his mother.  I just wish he’d apply his interest in games to other things.  He was in science club, but he quit that.  He took some Tae Kwon Do lessons, but he quit that.  I thought maybe coding classes would interest him because he loves being on the computer, but that didn’t work either.  I also played video games as a kid.  But we’d just beat a few levels of Mario, and then we’d get a call to come outside.  But that doesn’t happen anymore.  Because the person who’d normally call you is on the other end of the headset.
I’ve been on antidepressants since August of last year.  I was living alone in the city at the time and feeling a lot of anxiety.  So I talked to a therapist, and she recommended antidepressants.  At first I was nervous about taking them.  There’s a bit of a stigma in the African American community.  If you take any sort of medication, it’s like: ‘Oh, you crazy now.’  So the first thing I did was look on the Internet.  I’m not even sure what I searched.  But somehow I ended up finding Matt’s videos on YouTube.  He was sort of documenting his own experience with antidepressants.  He was black.  He was male.  He was queer.  And he was doing fine.  It just made me feel a lot less alone.  I sent him a short message thanking him for his videos, and he started checking in on me about once a week.  He’s been a great friend.  We actually just met in person for the first time on Saturday.
My father called me ‘stupid’ a lot.  Even when I’d bring home good grades, he’d say things like: ‘You’re smart, but you don’t know anything.’  I just wasn’t a big reader like him.  He always had a book in his hand.  Math was my thing.  During lunch I’d go to the junior high library and sit on the floor with puzzle books.  Now I’m a teacher, and I’ve taught every math class in the high school curriculum.  A few years ago I was teaching my precalculus class, and I stumbled upon a set of numbers that generated ellipses with identical positioning in both the rectangular and polar coordinate systems.  So I turned them into variables, wrote a two-page proof, and had my work published in a journal called The Mathematics Teacher.  Take that, Dad.
My mom left the Philippines when I was five years old.  My sisters and I were very young at the time.  We basically raised ourselves because my dad doesn’t talk much.  It must have been hard on my mother.  She wasn’t able to come back because of her visa status, and we didn’t have the money to visit.  We talked on the phone about once a month.  She’d send us letters, and clothes, and toys.   It took ten years of working and saving for her to finally bring us over.  I think the reunion was much different than she imagined.  She probably expected us to be grateful, but all of us were teenagers by then.  We weren’t used to being told what to do.  So we were pretty awful to her.  And my father divorced her soon after we arrived in America.  But her sacrifice paid off.  We all graduated college and have good jobs.  But it wasn’t until I became an adult that I realized how lonely those ten years must have been.
Today in microfashion
My dad came here when he was my age, but I don’t feel especially connected to Vietnam.  I haven’t even really asked him about his history.  I’m a proud person.  But for me it’s about what I’m doing right now.  I didn’t experience my father’s history.  So I’d rather not identify as the son of a refugee.  I’m an American kid going to an American school. I’d much rather see myself as an adjective.  Preferably one that refers to my personality.  Like ‘cool.’  Or ‘nice.’  Or ‘interesting.’
Last year I did an exploration of having a child on my own.  I went to the doctor, and after she looked at my uterus, she said: ‘Not only is it possible, but your uterus looks younger than its years.’  Then she put me in the stirrups and did a demo to show me exactly how the procedure would work.  The ultrasound screen was right next to me.  I kept looking at it and wishing I could see a baby on there.  But I was already 48.  I was single.  My income wasn’t secure at the time.  And I didn’t have family that could take care of the child if something happened to me.  So I decided not to do it.  I finally closed the door for good.  I cried uncontrollably for weeks.  It’s a gaping hole in my life that will never go away.  I’ll just get better at dealing with it.  I wish I’d done it on my own when I was younger.  I wish I’d stopped complaining about the past, and hoping for the future, and just said: ‘Fuck it. This is where I am now, and this is what I can do about it.’
Last week I was picking through the trash, looking for bottles and cans to recycle, and my social worker walked by with her family.  She walked just a few feet from me.  And I know she saw me.  But she didn’t say a thing.  Not even ‘hello.’  I asked her about it during our next meeting, and at first she denied seeing me.  But then she told me that she had been in her ‘private space.’  That really put a stake in my heart.  Why can’t you say ‘hello’ to me in your private space?  So I’m writing her a letter.  I’m using a dictionary because I want the words to be perfect.  If you mess up your words, then it’s easy for people to ignore what you’re trying to say.  And I want to be sure she knows exactly how it made me feel.
It happened on Father’s Day.  I took him out to lunch, and then afterward we went to a barbecue at his family’s house.  He’d been drinking all day.  At one point he’s got our daughter in his arms, and he tells her to call me a ‘biatch.’  So I start yelling at him.  And he hits me so hard with his fist that I had to get ten stitches.  That was the last straw for me.  I still think he’s a great dad.  I’ll give him that.  A lot of people ask me how I can say that, but I see it like this: when he’s around my daughter, I see the love.  She lights up when he walks in the room. I wanted that love for myself, but at least she gets it.  And he’s a good provider.  He works.  He just bought her a bunch of new clothes this weekend.  When he dropped them off at the house, he asked me if I was going to drop the charges.  I told him ‘no.’ Not this time.
I feel like I had so many more stories before I came to film school.  I wrote so much when I was young.  I’d fill up entire journals.  I was a quiet kid, so writing was my way of imagining conversations that I’d never have in real life.  But it doesn’t feel like I’m expressing myself anymore.  It’s become less about whether I like it, and more about whether my professors and classmates like it.  I’m always focused on the rhythm, or the structure, or the notes I received in class, or all these rules from a long time ago that everybody uses because they work.  And it just feels like I’m swapping out decorations in a house that’s already been built.  But I’m afraid to be more inventive, because if your work doesn’t fit the rules, then people will doubt your talent.  So film school has made me much better at making other people happy.  But it’s made me less happy.  And that’s not a direction that I can see myself continuing for very long.
My mother was sick for most of my life.  She had nineteen years of treatment for Hodgkin’s disease. But she was the kind of mother that would come home from chemotherapy, vomit in the bathroom, and then still cook dinner for all of us.  And she did this while getting a PhD in clinical psychology.  She just loved being a mother. Even after the chemotherapy destroyed her ovaries, she adopted two more children.  She passed away I was twenty-five.  Shortly after she died, I realized that I couldn’t remember her voice.  I’ve just never been an oral person.  It was maddening.  It felt almost disrespectful.  I had all these old videos of her, but they were silent.  So I thought I’d just never know what she sounded like.  Then last night, my sister found a small cassette in an old box.  It was from my mother’s answering machine.  And she picked up the phone during one of the recordings.  It was a month before she died.  She was so sick at the time.  But she said to the person: ‘Nicholas is coming to visit me, so I stayed up late baking, and I’m waking up early to clean.’
I was in a relationship for most of my teenage years.  He wasn’t a bad guy, but I think long relationships can be toxic when you’re that young.  That’s the age when you’re supposed to be figuring yourself out.  And that can be hard if you’re completely focused on another person.  I was always more worried about ‘us’ than I was worried about myself.  I’d make decisions just to maximize our time together: the places I worked, the classes I chose, the friends I spent time with.  Recently I looked through my high school photos, and I don’t have a single picture when I’m not with him.  And, I don’t know… it feels like some of those memories should have been mine alone.
I like to shop, but I hate going to those fancy stores in midtown. They treat me like I don’t have any money. They’re always telling me prices when I didn’t ask. Either that, or they figure I’m coming in to steal. I went to one store recently, and as soon as I walked in the door, I saw the manager lean in to the clerk and say, ‘Watch her.’ And so this girl starts following me around, real close. She was acting like she wanted to help. If I picked up an item, she’d say: ‘Let me hold onto that for you.’ So I thought to myself: ‘I’ll give you something to hold.’ I walked around that entire store. I went on a real spree. By the time we were finished, she was holding 25 dresses. You could barely see her face. Then I led her up to the cash register and said, ‘You know what? I changed my mind. I think I'll shop somewhere else.’
I came to it late in life.  I was already in college.  We were playing a dice game in the back of a bar and my character transformed into a lion.  I’ve been hooked ever since.  Now I’m part of a huge role-playing community, and next week I’m going to a three-day event in Pennsylvania.  Basically it’s a bunch of people getting together and pretending to be something we’re not.  It’s the bonding that’s most important.  The hobby is great, but you always spend more time talking then doing the hobby itself.  We’re building a shared history.  And each time we meet there’s more to reminisce about.  It can be hard to meet people when you’re older, but I’ve made hundreds of friends in the community.  When my dad got sick recently, I asked for ‘spells, prayers, and cat videos.’  The post had 111 comments and 94 emoticons.
Really incredible update for everyone who donated to our Rohingya fundraiser earlier this year.  Thanks to the hard work of Jerome Jarre and Love Army, our expectations have been wildly exceeded.  2500 homes have been built and the remainder should be finished by next month.  These houses were built by over 1500 *paid Rohingya volunteers.*  Not only were they built to specification, but extra features were added to each house.  Solar panels were added to every roof.  (In the words of Jerome: ‘These are high quality solar panels, not cheap ones that break in two weeks.’)  Lights and fans were installed.  A custom cooking stove and chimney were also added, along with additional shelves for storing food.  Thanks to Jerome’s obsession with controlling costs, these additional upgrades came in at just $70 per house, which Jerome funded from other sources.

Extremely thankful to Jerome and Love Army for being such good stewards.  The money could not have been spent more efficiently.  Jerome asked if I would mind sharing the fundraiser link again to help with routine maintenance of the houses.  So if any one wishes to help more, they can be assured that their donations are in the right hands:


It’s my reboot.  I have a level of confidence on the softball field that I somehow need to find in the rest of my life.  I’m like a puppy in the outfield.  I don’t have to think about what I’m doing.  You can hit the ball anywhere and I’ll track it down.  I love the moment when the ball is in the air, and I’m focusing on it, and I’m not thinking about anything else.  I’m not thinking about paying rent.  I’m not worrying about the next audition.  I’m not feeling the fear of being just a bartender.  It’s my moment of Zen.  I used to feel the same way when I was acting, or in front of a camera.  And I still do, when I get to do it.
At first it was absolutely shocking.  He’s up every two hours.  If all he does is grumble, there’s a good chance that he’ll fall back asleep.  But if he starts gobbling out vowels and consonants, that means he’s up for good and nobody’s going back to sleep for a while.  We’ve been getting some longer chunks of sleep lately.  But whenever we think it’s conquered, there’s a curveball.  So we’ve just had to embrace being absolutely knackered all the time.  The first thing to go was our vocabularies.  You know when you can’t quite think of a word, but then you suddenly get it?  Well that doesn’t happen anymore.  The word never comes.  So now we consider it a win if we’re able to communicate a rough idea of what we mean.
I’m writing a Grandma Noir.  The premise is this: a lady comes to an old person’s home, but nobody likes her.  Suddenly she turns up dead and our protagonist Helen has to solve the mystery. There’s a motorized wheelchair chase.  There’s a Viagra orgy.  There’s a villain who’s faking Alzheimer’s while masterminding a pill-trading operation.  It’s got everything.  I sent the book to a bunch of agents.  I got a nibble from one of them.  She told me that she made it to page 100 before quitting, so I figure I’m on the right track.
My dad helped me choose my clothes until I was six years old but then I wanted to do it myself.  He’s still my main fashion inspiration.  He actually brought me this scarf from India.  But he mainly likes to wear man shirts with words on them. At first I didn’t have a very good sense of style.  I just wore pink leggings with shorts over them.  I got better when I was nine or ten.  And now that I’m eleven, I think I’m finally figuring it out.
It was my decision to leave. There were too many problems. She hadn’t kissed me in years. We’d argue over every little thing. Our son was grown and I just didn’t see a reason to stay. So I came home from work one day, packed up my things, and left. I’ve been staying with my sister ever since. It’s been a tough two years. I’ve tried to reach out but she isn’t talking to me anymore. My son isn’t speaking to me either. They want nothing to do with me. I biked over here for Father’s Day. I was going to knock on their door but I changed my mind. I decided to just let them be. I wish I’d never left. Even though we were always fighting, it still felt like I had a home.
A couple weeks ago we were coming home from visiting my brother in Long Island and we stopped at a burger place off the highway.  He had a Junior Whopper.  I had a Whopper.  We split the fries.  And while we were eating, he said: ‘You know what Daddy?  You’re a really great Daddy.  I love you Daddy.’  And that got me.  I almost choked on my burger.  Because it wasn’t bedtime.  He wasn’t leaving for school.  It was just off the cuff.
Obama had been president for six days.  The old timers in the twelve-step program tell you to associate the memory with something, so that’s how I remember it.  The weather was just like this, even though it was November.  It was sixtyish degrees.  I was sitting on a stoop, having my morning beer and cigarette, and feeling disgusted with myself.  I was wheezing so bad that it felt like I’d swallowed a whistle.  And I had this moment of clarity.  I knew I was done.  So I took a couple more swigs, threw the pack of Newports into traffic, and walked over to Project Renewal on 3rd Street.  I’ll be ten years sober if I can make it until November 10th.  That was my day.  And it still is my day.  Even if I fail, I’ll remember that on that day I succeeded.  And if I did it then, I can do it again.
I was eleven when my mom divorced my stepdad.  She had four kids at the time.  I remember we were in the bedroom, and she said to me: ‘You’re the oldest so I’m going to need your help.’  And ever since then I’ve been ‘Mom Number Two.’  I picked my little brothers up from school.  I cooked for them.  I made sure they did their homework.  I met with their teachers.  I’d be the authority figure until mom came home from work.  I was always the responsible one.  Nobody ever had to worry about me.  But now I’m twenty and my whole life has been about my little brothers.  I’ve never really felt the security to figure myself out.  But today is orientation at my new college.  I just finished meeting with my advisor.  There are so many clubs and organizations that I can join.  I want to meet a lot of different people.  I want to be more outspoken.  I feel like this is my chance to learn who I am.
I was diagnosed with leukemia during my early teens.  It was a full year being out of school.  And when I came back it felt like everyone had moved on without me.  I had to repeat ninth grade.  My social circles had changed and I was desperate to make new friends.  I started trying way too hard to impress people.  I’d make stuff up about myself.  I remember pretending that I could read palms.  Anything to get close to people who were cooler than me.  But the worst part is that I started to avoid people who weren’t "cool.'  There was one girl I absolutely loved, but she had a weight problem and kids were mean to her.  So I started ducking into classrooms if I saw her coming down the hall.  Or I’d sit at the other end of the cafeteria.  It was the opposite of who I’d always been.  I’d always been the one making sure everyone was included.  I was always the first one to introduce myself to new kids.  I wanted everyone to feel important.  But for awhile I became the opposite of that.  I became a social climber.
I’m from a small country in Africa called Benin.  I won the visa lottery to come here.  I didn’t even know I was eligible.  My brother entered my name and didn’t even tell me.  I was studying to be a psychiatrist at the time.  I assumed that I’d be able to continue with medical school.  But when I arrived here, I found out that none of my credits would transfer.  I had a choice: either go home and become a doctor, or start from the bottom.  I didn’t speak any English.  I didn’t have any money.  But I knew if I could somehow make it here, my degree would be much more valuable.  So I made the choice to stay.  I began practicing English with my young nieces.  The first thing I learned was: ‘I’m going to kick you.’  I got a job with a catering company and learned how to say ‘I’m here to deliver your food.’  I studied as many YouTube videos as I could during my free time.  It’s been three years now.  I’m almost finished with my bachelor’s degree.  Just two classes left.  At nights I work as a behavioral specialist in a mental health facility.  I’m going to take the MCAT in September. My friends back home have all become doctors already, but I try not to think about them.  I don’t want to lose my focus.  I haven’t made it yet, but I’m making it.
I’ve known I wanted to be an actor ever since we performed Horton Hears A Who in 5th grade drama camp.  I studied theater in college.  But right now I’m in between roles.  It’s been a minute.  My acting teacher told us to just focus on the callbacks.  But getting callbacks is not getting a part.  The last role I had was a space pirate in a Star Warsy kind of play.  It was at an art gallery in Long Island City.  I was fighting an evil race of aliens on a zombified planet, but I’d actually been hit by a train and was in a simulation to keep my brain active.  It was every Halloween costume that I ever wanted to be, but I only made enough money to buy myself dinner.  Do I choose more stability and less joy?  Maybe I could find a job that has one element I enjoy, like Human Resources at Wells Fargo.  Overall it would suck but at least I’d get to help people.  Sure I’d spend six hours being upset, but at least I could help Jane with her issue.
He’s had problems with speech since he was two years old.  Even as a baby he would get frustrated when he couldn’t express himself.  He’d scream.  He’d clench his fists.  He still occasionally has trouble knowing what he wants.  Sometimes I can calm him down with words.  Other times it just makes things worse, and I’m better off doing nothing at all.  It’s a challenge every day.  It’s especially tough in public because it seems like you have no control.  You can feel people looking at you.  And you feel judged, judged, judged.  But every child is so different.  Nobody understands your situation.  And they don’t know your story.
I tell my students things that only the Master of The Universe could know.  I tell them that if they choose a certain path, they can be sure of success.  At times I’ve convinced them that certain assignments will make or break their future.  For a middle school to work, you have to impart a sense of urgency.  You have to make them believe these things.  Time may not be as important as we say it is, but it’s more important than they think it is.  I teach in one of the most underprivileged neighborhoods in the city.  And it’s almost too late to change their course when I get them.  By seventh grade, the engine is almost finished, and you’re just adding the windows and tires.
There was never any joy in it.  I practiced every day since I was four years old.  I was just afraid of what would happen if I stopped.  My father was a ‘rageaholic.’  Even our piano playing came from a place of hate.  He wanted to humiliate his colleagues and prove that his children were superior.  He was a hematologist.  He was respected in his field.  His only friends were his colleagues.  Occasionally he’d have them over to dinner.  Or more accurately, they’d invite him first and he’d feel the need to reciprocate.  Those dinners were an escape for my sister and me.  He’d never act out his worst stuff in front of other people.  I think the other doctors could sense something was wrong, but nobody ever pulled me aside.  It felt like I was trapped in a castle with an evil king and queen and nobody was allowed inside.  People did come in, of course.  But they would never meddle.  They were his guests and it’s not polite.
Fifth grade graduation is in two weeks.  I’m going to miss my teachers, lunch, recess, and my counselor Meghan.  She’s a kind-hearted person that doesn’t give up on you.  The first time I met Meghan was in third grade when I got really mad at one of my teachers who was being mean because of something called tenure.  I punched the wall so hard that I got scars on my knuckles.  I was sent to Meghan’s office and I talked to her for like two hours.  I told her about the whole first half of the year.  She didn’t even fidget when she was listening.  Now we meet once a week.  We always work on being empathetic.  Empathy was my big thing during fourth and fifth grade.
I was eating, sleeping, and shitting libraries.  My life was becoming a little one note.  All my friends were librarians.  My social life consisted of professional development conferences.  I needed another source of inspiration.  So I started writing comic book reviews online.  I built up a nice little portfolio.  One of my reviews was actually quoted on the back of a comic book.  Another one got copied and pasted into a marketing email.  They spelled my name wrong but it still felt great. I haven’t made any money yet, but you can’t put a price tag on this.  I’m writing all the time.  I’m engaging a part of brain that was being ignored.  Two years ago I just worked in library sales.  Now I’ve got a press pass to Comic Con.
When you’re a kid, Jesus sounds like a hippie or Bernie Sanders or something so it all sounds pretty nice. But then the rules get confusing. You go to Catholic school and some guy in a dress named Brother Roy starts beating you cause you got in a fight. It’s sorta like Gitmo in there. And you start to realize that all these rules are just to keep people down. To keep women down especially because they have the ultimate power of not fucking you. I do like the Jews because their version is less full of shit. A lot of those Talmud guys are so smart that they’re practically just atheists who love fairy tales. And Buddhism is pretty cool too cause it’s all in your head. No Pope. No mandatory meetings. Anyway, let me know if you figure it out. I don’t know shit I just dress well.
When I first moved here I was living with my uncle in Brooklyn.  He lives in a Jewish neighborhood.  I accidentally set off his alarm one night when I came home.  I couldn’t defuse it.  The alarm kept screaming: ‘Burglary!  Burglary!  Burglary!’  I was the only black person in the neighborhood at the time, so I panicked.  I knew it didn’t look good.  And I didn’t want to die in this movie.  So the first thing I did was call 911.  The operator was like ‘What’s your emergency?’  I told her: ‘I’m staying at my uncle’s house, and the alarm is going off, and I need you to tell the responding officer to expect a black man.’  And she said: ‘Is your uncle black too?’  And I said: ‘Ma'am, all of us are black.’  Then I fixed up a bowl of macaroni and cheese, turned on all the lights, stood in the middle of the living room, and waited for the knock.
I’d been smoking pot since ninth grade and it made me think differently.  So I figured that psychedelics would be the next step.  I’d just moved to California.  I was hearing stories of people tripping in nature.  At the minimum they were being inspired and at the maximum they were being enlightened.  It seemed like there was something more out there and I just wanted to get a glimpse of it. Mushrooms definitely give you a feeling of having ‘made it through.’  It’s like you’ve been sheltered from reality your entire life, and you’re finally seeing it, and it’s going to stay that way.  But I became obsessed with the chemical.  I was making all these beautiful connections.  And they seemed so real.  But in the end I was still alone in my head.  And I was becoming more isolated.  Some people find a lot of value in them, but my journey with psychedelics ended at the hospital.
I was not a tough kid growing up.  I was timid.  I was very sensitive to pain in other kids.  I never wanted to do anything that made people feel worse than they already did.  And God forbid I ever hurt somebody.  That would just destroy me.  I’m having to learn to dial that back as an adult.  There’s such a thing as being too compassionate.  If you’re too scared of causing pain, you can easily be manipulated.  Your fear becomes a button to be pushed.  In my last relationship, I was made to feel hurtful or aggressive whenever I stood up for myself.  So I always backed down.  I’ve got to learn the line between being compassionate and being a doormat.
I felt humiliated and suicidal in college.  It seemed like my personal failings were on display for everyone to see.  I’m not all that attractive.  I have a speech impediment.  I’m not good socially.  I saw other guys having romantic success and I felt a lot of envy.  I concluded that women owed me something.  They owed me a chance.  And I was angry they weren’t giving it to me.  I’m ashamed of it now, but during that time I formed a lot of bad and hateful opinions.  I joined ‘incel’ communities on 4chan and Reddit.  I found a lot of men there who felt just like me.  The community provided this pseudoscientific justification for hating women.  It let us feel like it wasn’t our fault.  We stoked each other’s anger.  And it felt good.  Honestly, anger is just very addictive.  You want to feel angry when you’re suffering.  It gives you adrenaline.  It gets your endorphins going.  It’s a release.  It’s a substitute for what you’re missing.
I turned fifty a couple weeks ago.  I’ve lived in the same neighborhood for most of my life, which makes it more challenging because everything around me has changed so dramatically.  My best friend and I got our first apartment here when we were twenty years old.  We used to play this game where we’d race each other through the streets.  We’d take off our shirts and run to the Hudson.  First one to get there was King Of The World.  There was a vibrancy back then.  People would see us running but they’d be OK with it.  Because we were young.  We were allowed to take up space.  You think you’ll act young forever but the rules change.  Your audience won’t allow it.  We’re programmed to see older people a certain way.  You can almost chart it on a graph.  You disappear as you age and the world notices you less and less.  And it makes you realize how much energy you got from being noticed.
It’s International Whores' Day today.  It’s about reclaiming the word.  ‘Whore’ is a hateful word.  There’s so much stigma in that word.  It can be used against any woman that you want to hurt.  It’s dehumanizing.  And it strips sex workers of dignity.  Construction workers get paid to use their bodies.  Factory workers get paid to use their bodies.  But if you use your genitals then suddenly you’re an outcast.  Sex workers are at the highest risk of sexualized violence.  And it’s funny that in this era where everyone is calling out workplace harassment, the most vulnerable group is being ignored.  They’re not seen as worthy of protection.  Language matters.  So we shouldn’t be calling people ‘whores.’  We should be calling them ‘people.’
I married when I was sixteen. It was an arranged marriage. I’d never seen him before. I just came home from school one day and my dad told me that someone is coming to see you. He said: ‘You’re going to get married.’ The man was twenty-nine. I was so upset. Nobody ever discussed it with me. I had wanted to finish my education. I had wanted to be a flight attendant. I fought so hard but the whole family turned against me. Everyone stopped talking to me. My father stopped eating. So I gave up. I married my husband and came to America. I had three kids by the time I was twenty. I’ve accepted it now. He’s a good father to my children. He tried to tell me what to do at first but he’s given up. I work at Starbucks and the bakery. They’re nice people. They treat me good. But one day I’d like to maybe have a higher position so that I can work just one job. So I can spend some time on myself. And so I can maybe finally go to school.
We had a Native American museum today in third grade and the whole school came.  I’ve been looking forward to it ever since second grade when I learned that third graders get to make dioramas.  The museum was open from 10:15 to 10:45 or something like that.  There was a cooking section where we gave out pumpkin bread.  Then there was a tools and artifacts section.  My table was in the games section.  I put my snow snake on display.  Snow snake is a very fun game in my opinion, but only four people came to my table.  They said: ‘What is that?’  And I said: ‘It’s a snow snake.  You can read about it on my poster.’  Then they looked at my poster for two seconds and went to get some pumpkin bread.
I worked at a make-up counter after graduating with a chemistry degree.  My African mother was so mad.  But I love make-up.  It’s like therapy.  You make people feel good.  You can change how they think, how they walk, how they talk.  It’s transformative.  Even when I got a job at a tech company, I still primarily viewed myself as a make-up artist.  I had my own website.  On the weekends I’d work weddings.  But I always wanted to do it full time.  So I finally took the leap.  I moved to New York.  I started getting on assistant lists.  I did make-up for a few web series.  I networked with people on Instagram.  It was scary at first, but it’s been three years now and I finally feel safe.  I’m getting magazine jobs.  I just did a pilot for Comedy Central.  Last month I paid off all my credit cards.  And I think my African mother is finally coming around.
I’m just beginning art school.  I’m trying to find my own voice and style.  I’m doing it in a Frankenstein sort of way.  I’m borrowing ideas and techniques from other artists, and then I try to change them a little.  It’s hard to create something new because it feels like everything has been done before.  It was easier in high school.  I was just starting out so it was impossible to disappoint myself.  But now I have some training and I feel pressure to make something good.  It seems like my work needs to have a certain quality or it’s not worth the effort.  It’s hard to get back to ‘anything goes.’
I have pretty bad social anxiety.  But I decided that I was going to be more outgoing when I went to college.  So I joined the Facebook group for incoming freshmen, and I sent a generic ‘hey’ to everyone.  Almost everyone gave me a generic ‘hey’ back, but he kept responding.  Then he added me on Snapchat.  He started sending me selfies and I responded with pictures of my living room.  He wanted to FaceTime, but I hate seeing my own face in the corner so we just talked on the phone instead.  When school finally started, we went out together with a group of people.  We didn’t make much eye contact but we did stand next to each other the entire time.  A month later we were in class and I was making fun of him for not using soap when he washes his hands.  And he said: ‘If I use soap, will you date me?’  And I said ‘yes.’  So here we are.
After graduating I worked as an industrial engineer.  I spent five years designing presses for all kinds of factories.  But it got too predictable.  I was spending eight hours in front of a computer every day.  It wasn’t enough for me.  My mind was always somewhere else.  Engineering has never just been a job for me.  It’s what makes me feel alive.  It has to be something I struggle with.  If I find the answer too easily, it has no value for me.  So I went back to school and got my PhD in biomechanics, and now I’m doing research in exoskeletons.  My lows are now lower.  I never feel smart enough.  I’m constantly discovering people who are doing similar or better work.  But my highs are also higher.  Because every time I discover a solution, it feels like I’m bringing the future closer.
I’m from a small town in the mountains of northern Georgia.  We’re famous for apples.  I moved here a week ago to try to be an actor.  Right now I’m applying for waiter positions.  I’ve got a little crypto currency and $5,000 saved from working at the carwash, so I figure I can make it for at least a year.  I did have one major role back in Georgia.  It was the guy’s first film.  I had a big death scene where a ghost blew some powder on my face and melted it off.  I’m really just taking all the jobs I can get right now so I can build a reel.  It’s mostly unpaid stuff.  I booked a music video for Sunday that I found on Facebook.  Don’t ask me the artist or genre.  All it said was: ‘Have to be comfortable being painted.’  Whatever that means.
When I went to college, I thought about joining one of those Asian student organizations.  But I wasn’t sure if I wanted to go ‘all in’ on being Asian.  I had to ask myself how integral it was to my identity.  I’ve never been very traditional.  I grew up in a white town on Long Island.  If I described myself in three adjectives, ‘Asian’ wouldn’t be one of them.  But on the other hand, the world is going to see race anyway.  I view myself as Chinese, but Asian is the first thing people see.  So if it’s how everyone sees you, should you see yourself the same way?
When I’m home, nobody will talk to me.  It’s like I am dead.  I don’t like quiet because then I have nothing.  So I ride the train into the city.  Compared to home, the city is like heaven.  There are a million people you can ask for help.  There are people to help you up the stairs.  And there are so many smells.  I love the smell of food.  Right now I’m trying to memorize my way to Carnegie Hall.  I like to go to theaters and museums where my mind can be nourished. Sometimes I can hear tourists talking about the exhibits.  Sometimes I hear college students talking to each other and it makes me feel younger.  It makes me feel like I’m still alive in this world.
We’ve been married for almost twenty years.  We have two children.  But he suffers from depression and self-medicates with alcohol.  He’ll quit drinking for stretches at a time, but he keeps falling back into it.  So I have to support our family on a single income.  And I’m just so tired of keeping him uplifted all the time.  I don’t feel emotionally supported.  There’s no physical intimacy.  But I can’t bring myself to leave.  He’s a great dad when he’s sober.  And I know that our family might be the only thing holding him together.  But I can’t help but wonder: ‘Am I missing out on an amazing relationship?’  Especially when I feel tempted at a work party.  I just miss that feeling of connection.  But my husband hasn’t crossed any red lines.  He hasn’t hit me.  He hasn’t cheated.  If I found out he cheated, it would be so easy.  And it’s gotten to the point where I almost hope he would.
Five years ago I had a bout with breast cancer.  I didn’t catch it very early.  I had to get chemo, radiation, and a mastectomy.  I’d never felt so tired in my entire life, but it didn’t just throw me off physically.  It made me really, really sad.  I lost all my enthusiasm.  I lost my positivity.  Before it happened, I had so many dreams.  I had been thinking of starting a business.  Or maybe writing stories again.  It seemed like I could accomplish anything if only I did the things that I was supposed to do.  But all that disappeared after the cancer.  I got much more self-conscious.  I started thinking: ‘If bad things can happen at any time, why even bother?’  So I’ve been in a bit of a rut these last few years.  I’ve been floating along as an office manager.  But I recently lost that job, and I’m thinking this might be my chance to go after my dreams again.  I’d love to work with young folks.  I’d love to write books and stories for children.  And I know it sounds crazy, but I really want to open a bookshop.
I came to New York when I was twenty years old.  At night I’d sleep at the YMCA, and during the day I’d go around to all the fashion houses and show them my portfolio.  I was so shy that I could barely muster up the courage.  I’d stand outside for thirty minutes before I even walked in the door.  But somehow I got a job as an illustrator for Oleg Cassini.  He was a major designer in the movies.  I’d been working there for six months when he asked me to sketch a collection of five dresses.  They were just rough outlines to show where the seaming would be.  He never told me what they were for.  Then a few weeks later I was riding on a train, and I saw my sketches in the newspaper.  They were for Jackie Kennedy to wear in the White House.
I’m producing a podcast right now and I keep coming home pissed off.  I dread getting emails from my collaborators.  I get angry every time they disagree with my approach.  It’s just that I want to feel proud of what I create.  I want everything that I make to be a reflection of myself.  And that’s impossible when you’re working with collaborators.  So I have to get better at separating myself from my work.  Every project doesn’t need to represent me as a human.  The reality is that the podcast is bigger than me.  There’s a lot of money involved.  There’s a lot of people involved.  And for some reason I’m the only one that’s pissed off.  If I keep saying that the problem is everyone else, and one by one they’re saying the problem is me, then it’s probably me.
My daughter is always asking me to play with her Barbie dolls.  I try to tell her that I’m just going to watch but she starts begging me.  So I try to do the man stuff.  You know… fix the roof, move the furniture, maybe wash the Barbie car.
Annie had a tantrum because our magazine had a Fun Zone with puzzles and I did all the puzzles.  So she started stomping around but Mommy got sick of it so Annie went to time out in our room and turned out all the lights.  I tried to go inside but she kicked her boots at me.  I waited for ten minutes and then I went in quickly and asked her to help me on a puzzle where you had to find all the differences. And that made her happy again because Annie loves puzzles.
Having twins made me a more relaxed parent.  When you watch two kids grow up at the same time, it makes you less concerned about benchmarks.  Each of them had different talents and struggles.  He could do all the physical stuff first.  We had to put a net on the crib because he was always climbing out.  He could swim first.  He learned to ride a bike several years earlier than her.  But she was potty trained first.  She was reading by the age of three.  And she was much better at drawing pictures, her fire trucks always had four wheels, and his were just red scribbles.  If I’d only had one child, I’d probably have been obsessing over these talents and struggles.  I think every parent needs to feel like their child is special.  But twins made me realize that all children grow differently.  And it’s absurd to rank and classify them at such a young age.
I want to make sure I don’t miss a second of connectedness to the brands I’m representing.  In the digital world, there’s always this feeling that if you don’t respond back, it’s a lost opportunity.  If someone is talking to you, you have to answer or they might think you don’t care.  If a client asks my opinion, and I don’t reply ‘I agree with that’—he might ask someone else.  My paycheck depends on always being connected.  So there’s always a screen in front of me.  I’m always responding to ‘pings’ and ‘dings.’  But it has a lot of consequences.  Especially on my family.  My kids are growing up, and the moments I should be focusing on are happening all around me.  So that’s where I am right now.  I want to figure out how technology and innovation can give me more time with my family, not less.
I was raised with that Jewish intellectual worship of knowledge.  But all my professors in college were small-minded nasty little bitches getting off on their own power, wanting me to parrot them while telling me they didn’t.  So I decided I was a nihilist and that I was going to do as many drugs as possible.  If the goal is to spend your whole life trying to get rewards to trigger chemicals in your brain, why not go straight for the chemicals?  But that didn’t work out very well.  It quickly became less of a philosophy, and more of a massive drug addiction.
I’m doing a review of last year.  I’m looking at all the goals I set and whether I managed to achieve them.  A big one for me was that I finally managed to get my driver’s license.  It’s a little embarrassing because I’m well past that age, but I’ve always been terrified of driving.  So I signed up for some lessons.  I studied hard.  I took extremely meticulous notes.  Then I went to the testing center with my driving instructor.  They assigned me a real hard faced guy from Eastern Europe.  My instructor told me: ‘This guy fails everyone.’  So I started off pretty nervous.  I messed up almost immediately and made a rolling stop.  I’m pretty sure I stopped completely,  but apparently it was a rolling stop.  The test seemed to go on forever.  I couldn’t charm the guy.  I tried to make conversation but he was silent the entire time.  Then after we finished, he made me sit outside his office for an eternity.  But finally he came out and told me that I’d passed!  It was such a relief!  I haven’t driven since.


 (Sydney, Australia)
I was at a rave when I was sixteen, and my mates said ‘Try this.’  And it made me the opposite of who I normally am.  I’d always been really shy, but suddenly I was dancing in the crowd and talking to everyone around me.  Everyone else had issues too so it felt like I belonged.  Soon I found a source and it became every weekend for the whole weekend.  I’d be completely wiped on Monday so I started skipping school.  I ended up flunking out.  My depression and anxiety got really bad.  I was getting in fights.  I lashed out at anyone who tried to stop me.  When I was seventeen I tried to run away from home but got pulled over.  My mom sat me down and said: ‘If you keep going down this road, you’re not a son of mine.’  I’m better now.  I just do it once a month.  I know what’s at stake.  My anxiety is much better now, but I think the stutter might be permanent.

(Sydney, Australia)
We met two years ago at the office.  At the time he’d just gotten out of a really bad breakup.  It started with just lunch and coffee.  Then we started meeting after work.  We hooked up a little, somewhere between second and third base.  I told him that I liked him so if it wasn’t going anywhere then we couldn’t be friends. But that’s exactly what ended up happening.  It’s excruciating.  It seems like we’re always on the edge of a relationship.  We hang out.  We go to the beach.  I’ll go to his place, cook dinner, watch a movie, and then leave.  We get handsy.  We might kiss a little.  But that’s it.  Recently we went on a trip to New Zealand and shared a bed for four days.  We spooned every night but nothing else happened.  I know I’m complicit, but when I push him on it, he acts confused and says that he has a lot of friendships like this.  We kissed a little on my birthday last week.  The next day I texted him: ‘I’m not going to pretend this isn’t happening.’  He wrote back: ‘Let me think about it.  I’m in meetings.’  And he still hasn’t replied.

(Melbourne, Australia)
He’s always wanted kids.  So I thought: ‘We’ll roll the dice and see what happens.’  I honestly didn’t think I’d get pregnant.  They say it’s harder when you’re older, but here we are.  I’m not confident that I’m going to be a good mom. I think of maternal women as women who’ve always wanted kids.  I’ve known those people and watched those people and I’ve always thought: ‘I’m not like you.’  I’m afraid I’ll resent the change.  Everything stops for the kid, no matter what you’re doing.  I see my friends struggling to have a simple conversation because their kid keeps interrupting, or touching things, or running around.  That will be new.  But I’m trying to focus on the good parts.  I am excited to teach it things.  And hopefully I’ll be changed for the better.  But what if there’s not a bond?  You need that connection to stave off the resentment.  And if it’s not there, how do you fix that?  I’ve got one friend who doesn’t feel it very much.  She’s not patient with all the interruptions.  She cuts her kids off and sends them away.  She told me: ‘If I’d known what was coming, I’d never have done it.

(Melbourne, Australia)
My father had an ulcer that became infected.  It was relatively simple to cure but he refused to believe the doctors.  Instead he diagnosed himself with some sort of virus.  He stopped taking his medicine.  He created his own ointments instead.  He’s very intelligent so his reasoning could sound very convincing.  It was hard to identify when it crossed the line into mental illness.  But the infection never healed.  He went from surfing and swimming every day to barely being able to walk.  He aged twenty years.  And still he refused to go to a doctor.  He’d isolate himself from anyone who challenged him.  When he finally collapsed and was admitted to a hospital, the doctors said he had the lowest red blood cell count they’d ever seen.  Only then did he accept that things were out of his control.  He’s much healthier now.  He’s almost back to normal.  He’ll occasionally fall into the old script of defending his actions, but he manages to catch himself.

(Sydney, Australia)
I'm studying abroad right now.  I have a bit of a "boyfriend thing' going on back home.  He's a nice guy.  We met at a party and twenty minutes later he held my hair while I vomited.  Even though I wasn’t very attracted to him, he intrigued me.  I’d never met a boy who didn’t just care about sex.  I’d only dated football players and gross teenage boys.  He was different.  He genuinely cares about people.  He’d bring me all kinds of presents.  One time I had a bad week at school and he brought me a gift package with all my favorite things.  It was nice to have that much attention.  I did just enough of the girlfriend thing to keep him around.  Nothing he did affected me, and everything I did affected him.  It was a weird sense of power to be the one with less feelings.  I’d always been in the opposite position.  Even after we broke up, I still hung out with him and let him give me gifts.  He even gave me this journal for my trip.

(Melbourne, Australia)
I’m not looking to set the world on fire, but I need something to challenge me.  It feels like I’m reaching a critical juncture and I need to make some sort of decision.  Up until now I’ve just been floating along.  I’ve been at the same job for a long time.  I do the same things day in and day out: smoking, drinking, things like that.  It’s just so easy to be a consumer.  It’s so easy to reach for pleasure and avoid pain, so that you never have to face the future or think about getting old.  I don’t have anything elaborate in mind.  Maybe just get out more, or move to a new place.  Maybe have my son live with me for awhile.  I just want to prove that I can set a course and do the things I say I’m going to do.  Or if I can’t, I at least want to be honest with myself.  So I can stop beating myself up about it.

(Sydney, Australia)
I moved here from Kenya with my husband.  He became very abusive when we arrived.  He made sure I didn’t have any friends.  If anyone came to visit me, he’d immediately say: ‘I don’t like them.’  I was scared all the time.  When my mother came to visit from Africa, she could tell something was going on.  A mother can always tell. She saw how he spoke to me.  When she left for the airport, she seemed so worried about me.  It broke my heart.  So the next time he hit me, I called the police.  And I’ve never looked back.  I have a great new boyfriend now.  The kids are happy.  I’ve got a job and I’m back in school.  Things are really perfect.  But I beat myself up a lot.  I think: ‘If I’d only left earlier, I’d have been here so long ago.’  But I did leave.  I’m here now.  And that’s the important thing.  Sometimes I need to remember to pat myself on the back.

(Melbourne, Australia)
This is the first time I’ve travelled alone.  My friend told me that you learn a lot about yourself when you travel alone.  But so far, I find it the other way around.  I feel like I learn more about myself when I have to relate to other people.  Today I walked around Sydney.  I saw everything I was supposed to see.  I don’t even know why I did it.  It just felt like the thing I should be doing.  Maybe I’m just not a contemplative person.  I generally feel satisfied with my life.  I don’t feel like I’m missing anything.  I don't have to love what I'm doing to be happy.  But does that make me ignorant?  Should I be searching for something?

(Sydney, Australia)
He was clean when I met him.  He’d drink and use drugs a bit, but only when he partied.  But he’s not strong like me.  He tried heroin and he liked the feeling.  And he couldn’t stop.  It’s not that he’s a bad person.  He has a soft heart.  He smiles a lot.  But he has a demon to fight and I already tried my best to help him.  I tried to move him from the area.  I tried to get him into rehab.  I took him to parenting courses and counseling.  Things got better for about six weeks.  He was acting positive and he was there every day.   Even if we got in a fight, he’d stick around and work things out.  But then he started disappearing again.  He started getting angry and violent.  Then he’d come back on drugs and act like everything was fine.   And I wasn’t going to allow it.  You can’t just do anything you want and come home to my children.  I hate being a single mom.  It’s lonely.  I hate that I’m playing into an Aboriginal stereotype.   But ultimately my dedication is to my kids.  I haven’t cut him off completely, but now he’s on his own.  He’s got to figure it out himself.  He can’t visit my kids until he’s 100 percent.

(Sydney, Australia)
Both of us are very passionate about the environment.  We actually met at the screening of a documentary about ocean pollution.  Maybe we’ll get politically involved one day, but right now we’re just trying to live sustainable, happy lives without harming anything. We try to focus on the little victories.  Recently we set up a triage hospital to help injured ducks during hunting season.  And a few weeks ago we organized a beach clean that picked up half a ton of rubbish.  It can be hard to affect change on a global scale, but we try to set an example, and it’s nice to see ripples of change in the people around you.  I’ve even got my mom teaching vegan recipes to her friends.

(Sydney, Australia)
The biggest insurance company in Australia collapsed in 2001, and there was a royal commission to find out the cause.  At the time I was working as a journalist.  I’d been getting the itch to write a book, so I decided that I’d become an expert on the subject.  Kind of a weird thing to choose, but I wanted to bang a peg in the ground about something.  When the book was published, I went to visit the main prosecutor and I noticed a copy sitting on her desk.  That made me feel like I’d created something of value.  The book was a bit like taking a leak in a dark suit.  Not many people noticed, but it left a warm feeling.

(Sydney, Australia)
Since there are only two million Assyrians left, there’s a feeling that we might not survive.  So we lean on our rituals.  We lean on our church.  We lean on our language, which nobody else speaks.  It's a ‘we’ culture.  Everything is about the group.  And if you wander too far from the group, you become a threat. Because the group can’t afford to lose anyone else. Your relatives will remind you that you should be proud to be Assyrian.  You’ll be reminded that our people were slaughtered.  So it’s tough to go your own way.  For the last couple months I’ve been traveling alone.  My mother is convinced that this is my breakout plan. She’s been so strict on me my entire life.  But a couple days ago she sent me a text message that brought me to tears.  It said: ‘I know that I said you've seen enough and that you should come back, but if you want to stay longer, and you feel that it's safe, than you should definitely stay.  And we'll hear from you when you come back.’

(Sydney, Australia)
I do lifesaving training every weekend.  Sometimes we have races where we have to paddle out to buoys in the middle of the ocean.  There was one really tough race a few weeks ago.  The ocean was messy like today but the waves were even bigger.  And there were lots of bluebottles.  Those are like Jellyfish but worse.  My dad said that I didn’t have to race, and half of the competitors dropped out, but I chose to do it anyway because I wanted to prove that I could be a lifeguard.  On the outside I was ready to go but on the inside I was really nervous.  Once the race started, some of the girls turned back because the waves were so big, and others were nose-diving and falling off their boards.  But I made it all the way to the end and got fourth place.  Everyone was congratulating me because fourth place is huge for me.

(Sydney, Australia)
I come from a village.  My life would have been nothing if I’d stayed home.  I’d just wake up, cook for my siblings, and clean the house.  I wanted to do more with my life, so I’m working in the city to save for my education.  It’s been a lot lonelier than I expected.  I’m so far from home.  I spend my evenings alone in my room at the boarding house.  I have nothing to do but think of my family.  I’ve been here a year, but I still haven’t met many people because I work so much.  My coworker is my closest friend.  She’s like my mother away from home.  She reminds me to eat, take my medicine, and get enough sleep.  If she sees that I’m sad, she tells me to rest and does the work herself.  It’s just nice to feel cared for.  I’m not sure if I could make it without her.

(Manila, Philippines)
I work on cargo ships.  I’m usually at sea for nine months at a time, but sometimes it can go past a year.  My last trip was 25 months.  It’s tough out there.  You’re so far from your family.  It’s been easier since we got Internet last year.  But before that you could only make phone calls when you got to a port.  And you’d only get a letter once every two months.  My mother died during a recent trip and I couldn’t even go home for the funeral.  She was fine when I left, but somewhere off the coast of South Africa, the captain came into the engine room and told me she’d passed away.  I was so weak I couldn’t work.  The other guys volunteered to take over my shifts. Everyone chipped in some money and gave me a gift.  We do that every time someone loses a family member.  Your crew mates are all you have out there.  All of us are going through the same thing.  And if you don’t share your problems, you’ll go crazy.

(Manila, Philippines)
My boyfriend left as soon as I got pregnant.  I was terrified to tell my father, but he discovered my pregnancy test hidden in a drawer.  He didn’t speak to me for a few days.  We’d always been close, so I knew something was up.  Finally he asked me if I wanted to tell him something.  I began to cry.  I thought he was going to kick me out of the house.  But he just went to speak with my mom in the other room, and when he came back, he asked what I planned to do.  I told him I wanted to keep the baby, and from that moment on he was very supportive.  He cooked me all kinds of dishes whenever I had cravings.  He gave me words of encouragement.  He started saving money in case I needed a cesarean section.  But during my seventh month he came down with a fever after wading through floodwater.  The next week it turned into a cough.  We took him to the hospital, went home to get clothes, but he died by the time we got back.  It was so sudden.  I had no idea what I was going to do.  I got all my strength from my father.  It seemed like keeping the baby had been a mistake.  It’s been a tough few years.  I had to drop out of school and find a job, but my son is doing well.  He’s very smart.  He comes home from school with stickers and stars.  He’s a ‘Mama’s boy.’  It’s been hard, but I’ve proven to myself that I didn’t have to end a life just because I couldn’t face it.

(Manila, Phillipines)
Soon after my father passed away, my mother got addicted to gambling. We began falling behind on the rent.  I realized what was happening when I found a Casino Filipino membership card in her wallet.  I tried confronting her, but she got furious.  She told me I had no right to tell her what to do.  She began to disappear for days at a time.  There was no money for my thesis project at school.  I’d borrow food from our relatives just to feed my younger siblings.  Then a few months ago our landlord finally kicked us out and we moved into a slum.  It was so noisy and dirty.  But I did my best to ignore it and focus on my schoolwork.  We live in an evacuation center now because the slum burned down.  My friends at school have been helping me with clothes and food.   And during it all, I’ve kept up my grades.  I’m graduating on April 3rd with a degree in Secondary Education.  I’m going to become a teacher.  I think I've already learned a special skill that teachers have to keep their personal problems out of the classroom.

(Manila, Philippines)
I’d always been very curious as a kid.  I remember taking apart electronics and putting them back together, just to see if they’d still work.  But I lost all that enthusiasm during my teenage years.  My house became very dark, literally and figuratively.  The lights were always off.  My parents were always fighting.  We never spoke to each other, and if we did, it was always in short sentences.  All I cared about was getting out.  I put the minimal amount of effort into school.  I was angry all the time.  I went through life without any goals and ended up getting a job that I wasn’t passionate about.  But then one day I downloaded a program onto my office computer that gave me control over the entire network.  It was my introduction to hacking, and I’ve been addicted to it ever since.  I feel inspired every day.  I started learning everything I could.  I even discovered you can do it legally, so I’m back in school, getting my degree in information security.

(Manila, Philippines)
My father died on the day he got out of prison, so I never knew him.  I was on my own as a child.  I wasn’t able to go to school.  I was hungry all the time.  I’d wait all day by the marketplace until they threw out the rotten food.  And if I couldn’t find any food, I’d steal it.  I’ve spent over twenty years of my life in prison.  My last sentence was for murder.  A man slapped my mother so I stabbed him in the heart.  But I’ve been trying to change ever since I adopted my son.  I convinced his parents to let me have him because they were neglecting him.  He was extremely sick when I found him.  He was skinny like a lizard.  But now he’s spoiled.  Whenever he wants something, I give it to him.  I don’t want him to be like me.  I want him to go to school.  My neighbors are in awe of my son.  He never begs or fights.  He’s very respectful because he’s so afraid of me.  I always tell him: ‘If you ever fight or steal, I’m going to kill you.’

(Manila, Philippines)
My stepfather would come to my side of the room when everyone else was asleep.  I’d heard about these things on television, but I couldn’t believe it was happening to me.  I told nobody.  I was ashamed.  I didn’t want anyone spreading rumors.  I couldn’t even tell my mom because who would she believe: him or me?  So I just left the house when I turned seventeen.  I started sleeping at the houses of my friends.  It was so lonely.  I never stayed in the same place for long.  And my mother grew so angry with me.  It ruined our relationship.  I had been helping her raise my siblings, so she thought I was abandoning my responsibilities.  Even today she doesn’t know why I ran away.  I haven’t even told my husband about this.  But what does it matter anymore?  I’m older now.  And my stepfather’s dead.

(Manila, Philippines)
You know the story of Martha and Mary?  One of them needed to make everything perfect for Jesus, and the other one just listened to him.  Well my mother was the one who needed everything to be perfect.  She would lose her temper every Christmas because something was out of place.  She was the definition of a ‘tiger mom.’  She rarely praised me.  She showed her love through sermons and lectures.  I was afraid of her, and so I always performed well on my assignments.  I always made the honor roll.  I became an executive at a fairly young age.  I can thank her training for a lot of those things.  But one thing I never learned was how to fail.  I was always too afraid of the consequences.  So even today I’m not good with the unknown.  It’s hard for me to try something new, because I’m scared of messing up.

(Manila, Philippines)
She asked me to pick her up early from school because she was vomiting. That’s when she told me that her period was late.  We went to the store and bought a pregnancy test, but the first one came out blurry.  A few hours later we tried again and it came out clear.  I told her I wanted to break up.  I’m ashamed of it now, but I was only eighteen.  I felt like I was way too young.  I just wanted to escape.  She started crying and told me that I’m a bad person.  She said: ‘You did this to me.’  So I started crying too, and I told her I was sorry, and I told her we’d figure it out.  Our son is two years old now.  It’s happy but it’s hard.  If I didn’t have a kid right now, I’d probably be working in an office.  I’d be sitting at a desk and typing on a computer.  Instead I’m working as a messenger.  I’m outside all the time.  I’m always worried about buying milk for my kid.  We’re all living with my parents now.  We’re doing well as a couple.  Whenever we’re stressed, we talk about it together.  She understands because she gave up a lot too.  She wanted to be a cook before she met me.

(Manila, Philippines)
I’m a researcher.  I work with local governments to draft legislation that encourages sustainable tourism.  Right now I’m working on guidelines for sea turtle interactions.  Currently there aren’t any laws regulating interactions with marine wildlife, so many species are being threatened. Dive companies are luring whale sharks with food and disrupting their migratory patterns.  Tourism isn’t a bad thing.  It benefits the economy and encourages conservation.  It just needs to be sustainable.  The industry needs to grow.  But it needs to grow in a way that doesn’t just enrich a few businessmen at the expense of our shared natural resources.

(Manila, Philippines)
When you’re six you have like twenty-eight responsibilities.  You have to help your mom.  You have to help your dad.  And you have to keep your room clean so your parents don’t come in and see your secrets.  I have over one hundred secrets and only five have been discovered because they’re protected by lasers.  I’ll tell you one but then I’ll have to throw it away.  I’m a real ninja master because I got powers from glowing red rocks I found in the caverns of lost treasure.  Someone hid them there in the 1980’s during World War 7.  That’s all I can tell you now because I don’t want everybody to know how special I am.

(Manila, Philippines)
My young son is very curious.  Every time I come home, he asks me so many questions.  He wants to know all about my day.  It's motivating for me because I always want to have something exciting to tell him.  But recently I’ve been out of work so there isn’t much to say.  I’ve been going on so many interviews without any luck.  I don’t try to hide anything from him because he sees that I’m striving.  I just tell him: ‘I’m looking for a job that suits me, and I still haven’t found the right one yet.’  But today I finally found a new job selling security equipment.  I’m starting tomorrow.  So I’m very excited to go home and report the good news.

(Manila, Philippines)
I’m starting an advocacy group at my university to break the stigma around domestic violence.  We have about seventy members so far.  I want to give women the confidence to speak about things that they only whisper about.  I know what it’s like.  I lived under the reign of my father for most of my life.  He’d throw things.  He’d punch us.  I had to do so many little things to help us survive.  I told the nuns at my school.  I told our neighbors to call the police if they heard screaming.  I made a duplicate key so we could go back for food whenever we escaped the house.  During one argument I tried to put myself between him and my mother.  He grabbed a knife and held it to my throat for three minutes.  I remember him saying: ‘You’re a disgrace to me,’ and ‘I never wanted you,’ and ‘You make life harder.’  I was terrified, but I’d been terrified for most of my life, so I knew exactly what to do.  I removed my mind from the situation. I prayed for my mother.  I tried to reflect on my life.  I remember feeling happy because I’d been alive for fourteen years, and I’d protected my mother for all that time.

(Manila, Philippines)
Now I have someone to play with!

(Manila, Philippines)
I had to break up with my girlfriend last week.  We’d been trying to hide our relationship because our parents think we’re too young to date.  I’d been telling my mom we were just friends.  And we told her dad I was gay.  But last week a neighbor took a picture of us kissing in the park, and my mom surprised me with the pictures when I got home.  I had to promise that I’d end the relationship and focus on my studies.  I’m actually on my way to her house right now.  But it’s only because I need help with a school project.

(Manila, Philippines)
Thanks to everyone who donated to the fundraiser this week!  As of this moment, $1,836,000 has been raised from over 35,000 donors.  That will be enough to build 3,000 sturdy bamboo houses for Rohingya refugees that are currently living in make-shift plastic shelters.  A family of five can live in each house, so with monsoon season approaching, these houses will significantly improve the living conditions of **nearly 15,000 people.**  Thank you so much to everyone who donated.  I’ll be leaving the fundraiser up for the rest of the day for anyone who’d still like to make a donation:

Before moving on, I want to give a special thanks to Jerome Jarre, who was largely the inspiration for this fundraiser.  (Pictured here with Sai’d, who’s story we shared yesterday.)  Last year, Jerome teamed up with a group of You Tubers and social media influencers to form Love Army—which has raised nearly $5,000,000 to help displaced people in Somalia as well as Rohingya refugees.  I was most impressed by the fact that Jerome then moved to both Somalia and Bangladesh for several months to ensure the money was being used effectively with zero overhead costs.  Jerome and Sa’id will be working with hundreds of paid Rohingya volunteers to construct the houses we’re funding, and will ensure all $1,800,000 goes directly to refugees.  So thank you, Jerome and Sa’id, for your work and inspiration.
There were no jobs during the civil war, so my dad went from being an engineer to selling food.  We had a shop in the main market of Mogadishu and during the day I helped him run the business.  One morning I stepped outside to take a phone call, and a mortar hit our building.  Twelve people were killed on the spot.  I fell down in the middle of the road.  My right thigh was broken.  For ten minutes I lay in the street because everyone was too scared to get me.  When I finally got to the hospital, it was chaos.  There was no electricity.  There were people in the hallways with their stomachs open.  Doctors and nurses were making quick decisions without a second thought.  I heard someone say to just cut off my leg.  But there was an American surgeon from Los Angeles in that hospital.  His name was Oscar.  He had come to Somalia just to save lives.  And under the most difficult circumstances he operated on my leg.  He was like a miracle.  I knew that God had saved me for a reason.  I too was going to be a humanitarian. (2/2)

-

I’m ending the Rohingya series by sharing the story of Sa'id, who is helping oversee the construction project we are helping to fund.  (We’ve raised over $1.5 million so far, which is enough to build over 2,500 houses.)  Sai’d works with the American Refugee Committee, who is partnering with Love Army to provide logistical and organizational support.  As is evident from his story, this work is very personal to Sa’id because he is a refugee himself.  Today is the final day of our fundraiser.  We’re almost up to 30,000 donors.  If we reach $1.8 million, that will be 3000 houses.  *Those houses can hold 15,000 people.  Every little bit matters, so
I was twenty when the civil war came to Somalia.  It started as a normal day for me.  I woke up that morning thinking about applying to university.  Suddenly I heard big sounds like cannon in the distance.  Then came the sounds of gunfire.  The fighting spread so fast.  By that afternoon I saw two dead bodies in the street.  I had never seen a dead person in my life.  My neighborhood became a battleground, but we couldn’t leave because there was no transportation.  There was no water or electricity.  The ATM’s wouldn’t work.  Mortars began to fall near our house so we took shelter in a nearby school.  I remember that first night, sleeping on the floor of the school, listening to the BBC Somali service on a handheld radio.  I had no idea what was happening.  In just a few hours my life had gone from thinking about college to only thinking about surviving.

-

I’m ending the Rohingya series by sharing the story of Sa'id, who is helping oversee the construction project we are helping to fund.  (We’ve raised over $1.5 million so far, which is enough to build over 2,500 houses.)  Sai’d works with the American Refugee Commitee, who is partnering with Love Army to provide logistical and organizational support.  As is evident from his story, this work is very personal to Sa’id because he is a refugee himself.  Today is the final day of our fundraiser.  We’re almost up to 30,000 donors.  If we reach $1.8 million, that will be 3000 houses.  *Those houses can hold 15,000 people.*  Every little bit matters, so
My parents fled Myanmar twenty-five years ago, so I was born in these camps.  I feel like a prisoner here.   I don’t have any rights.  The only thing that refugees are allowed to do is exist.  It’s not legal for us to study.  It’s not legal for us to work.  Even if I earned a PhD, I wouldn’t be able to get a job in Bangladesh.  But we can’t go home.  The only thing worse than being here is going back to Myanmar.  Some of my family decided to stay in Myanmar.  A few months ago I got a call from my cousin in the middle of the night.  He told me: ‘Pray for us.  We are going to die.  I am watching everyone die and there’s nothing I can do.’  I told him that we’d pray for him.  I could hear gunshots in the background.  And then he hung up.  A few weeks later he arrived alone in the camp.  He told us that fifty of our relatives were killed that night.  He was the only one who escaped.



**One day left for our fundraiser.** This week I'm sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. The Rohingya are a persecuted ethnic minority who have been violently evicted from Myanmar by the military and Buddhist extremists. Over the past year, nearly 700,000 Rohingya have been driven from their homes and are now residing in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Their living conditions are already dire, and monsoon season is approaching. As we share their stories, we are raising money to help build inexpensive bamboo houses for these refugees. (They are currently living in plastic tents.) Bamboo houses can be built for $600 a piece, and we’ve raised enough for nearly 2000 houses so far, but the need is much more. There’s only one day left in our campaign, so
The military arrested a leader of our village and took him out into the forest.  The next morning, we broke into small groups and everyone went searching for him.  I went with two of my friends.  We were searching in the forest when I heard one of them scream.  I ran over to see what he found.  It was the man we were looking for, but his neck had been cut.


This week I'm sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. The Rohingya are a persecuted ethnic minority who have been violently evicted from Myanmar by the military and Buddhist extremists. Over the past year, nearly 700,000 Rohingya have been driven from their homes and are now residing in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Their living conditions are already dire, and monsoon season is approaching. As we share their stories, we are raising money to help build inexpensive bamboo houses for these refugees. (They are currently living in plastic tents.) Bamboo houses can be built for $600 a piece, and we’ve raised enough for nearly 2000 houses so far, but the need is much more.
It was 2 AM when they came to our village.  They set all our houses on fire.  There was no time to grab anything.  Not even food.  All we could do was run.  For fifteen days we walked without any food.  There were bodies all along the path.  Only fear kept us going.  We had no energy.  People were sitting down to rest and never standing up again.  We started eating leaves off the trees.  I couldn’t breastfeed anymore.  One of my children died on the sixth day.  Another died a few days later.  Nobody even talked about it.  We were too weak.  I could barely even cry.  We just walked on in silence.  When we arrived at the camps, the doctor told me my baby was not going to survive.  But by the grace of Allah, she lived.



This week I'm sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. The Rohingya are a persecuted ethnic minority who have been violently evicted from Myanmar by Buddhist extremists. Over the past year, nearly 700,000 Rohingya have been driven from their homes and are now residing in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Their living conditions are already dire, and monsoon season is approaching. As we share their stories, we are raising money to help build inexpensive bamboo houses for these refugees. (They are currently living in plastic tents.) Bamboo houses can be built for $600 a piece, and we’ve raised enough for over 1000 houses so far, but the need is much more.
I was walking home from the paddy fields when I heard the sound of a bullet.  A young boy fell right next to me.  Then suddenly there were so many bullets that it seemed like rain.  I ran straight to my house and told my family to run.  I told them to run deep into the forest and I started grabbing everything I could.  I tried to follow them but it was raining too hard.  I kept losing my balance because I was carrying our bags.  It took me an hour to find them.  I was screaming their names like a madman. Finally I discovered tracks in the mud and found my children huddled in the woods, but my wife was not with them.  Nobody knew where she was.  It was too dangerous to stay so we had to keep moving.  We walked for three days without food and water.  The children kept asking for their mother, but I didn’t know what to tell them.  I thought we had lost her forever.  Finally on the fourth day someone told us they’d passed her on the road.  They said she was alone and crying.  We were starving and didn’t have the energy to go back.  But our nephew volunteered to find her, and tell her that we’d meet her in Bangladesh.

-

This week I'm sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. The Rohingya are a persecuted ethnic minority who have been violently evicted from Myanmar by Buddhist extremists. Over the past year, nearly 700,000 Rohingya have been driven from their homes and are now residing in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Their living conditions are already dire, and monsoon season is approaching. As we share their stories, we are raising money to help build inexpensive bamboo houses for these refugees. (They are currently living in plastic tents.) Bamboo houses can be built for $600 a piece, and we’ve raised enough for over 1000 houses so far, but the need is much more.
They came to our house first because it’s closest to the road.  We thought they just wanted to talk.  We thought they’d ask us some questions, and then they’d leave.  So we walked out to meet them.  I smelled smoke as soon as I walked outside.  And they started shooting their guns.  There was no time to go back.  They were shooting so I couldn’t go back.  And I couldn’t bring anything with me.  I just ran into the forest with my children.  And I forgot my baby boy.  I left him in the house because I thought we were coming right back.  I wanted to save him but my husband held me down.  So my baby burned in the house.  I’d have brought him with me, but I thought we were coming right back.

-

This week I'm sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. The Rohingya are a persecuted ethnic minority who have been violently evicted from Myanmar by Buddhist extremists. Over the past year, nearly 700,000 Rohingya have been driven from their homes and are now residing in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Their living conditions are already dire, and monsoon season is approaching. As we share their stories, we are raising money to help build inexpensive bamboo houses for these refugees. (They are currently living in plastic tents.) Bamboo houses can be built for $600 a piece, and we’ve raised enough for over 1000 houses so far, but the need is much more.


I looked out my window and saw smoke coming from the village across the river. At first I thought it was a casual fire. But then I heard shooting, and I saw people were trying to swim across the river. We knew that our village would be next. I grabbed what I could carry and ran toward the mountain. We hid in the bushes all day. There were thousands of us on that mountain. Anyone who tried to talk was shushed. We looked down on our village and watched them burn our houses. Before they burned mine, they carried everything out. They took all my furniture. They took two hundred bags of lentils. I’m a schoolteacher, but I owned a lot of farmland. I paid taxes on my land for decades. I have all my paperwork. I have all my receipts. But they took it all from me. I wasn’t able to bring a single grain of rice with me. These papers are all I have. They are worthless now. But my hope is that one day they’ll have value again. This week I'm sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. The Rohingya are a persecuted ethnic minority who have been violently evicted from Myanmar by Buddhist extremists. Over the past year, nearly 700,000 Rohingya have been driven from their homes and are now residing in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Their living conditions are already dire, and monsoon season is approaching. As we share their stories, we are raising money to help build inexpensive bamboo houses for these refugees. (They are currently living in plastic tents.) Bamboo houses can be built for $600 a piece, and we’ve raised enough for nearly 1000 so far.  


Nobody was prepared for this. There are now 700,000 people trying to figure out how to survive in the middle of nowhere. A few months ago, this entire area was a national forest reserve. It was covered with trees. But the refugees had nothing when they arrived, so they started cutting the trees for fuel. Then they moved on to shrubs. Now they’ve dug up all the roots so there’s nothing left but loose soil. It’s too dangerous for them to go home so we’re trying to make the best of the situation. Almost all the refugees are living in plastic tents right now. They’re extremely vulnerable. So we’ve designed sturdy bamboo houses and we’re building them as fast as we can. We want to finish as many as possible before the monsoon season arrives. ——————————————This week I’m sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. Alongside these stories, we’ll meet a few of the wonderful people who are working to make the situation better. This is Immad, a construction coordinator for the humanitarian organization OBAT Helpers BD. Immad is a hero of our tale because he designed the bamboo houses that we are currently raising money to build. Our campaign has raised over $500,000 so far. That’s enough to build nearly 800 houses. Because each house can hold a family of six, that’s enough to shelter nearly 5,000 people. A pretty remarkable achievement, but there are still nearly a million refugees without homes. So if you haven’t already, please consider donating here:


They didn’t say a word. They just started firing into the air and lighting our houses on fire. The burning began on the north side of our village, so we fled south into the forest. We walked all night through the dark. I could hear people in the forest all around me. We were too afraid to rest. When the sun began to rise, everyone panicked and started to run. I noticed two children leaning against a tree. Both of them were crying. The boy said nothing. The girl would only tell me that her mother had been killed. When I asked if they wanted to come with me, they nodded ‘yes.’ I’m taking care of them the best I can, but it’s difficult because I already have a large family. I think they are happier now. The girl has made some friends in camp. But she still keeps asking about her mother. This week I'm sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. The Rohingya are a persecuted ethnic minority who have been violently evicted from Myanmar by Buddhist extremists. Over the past year, nearly 700,000 Rohingya have been driven from their homes and are now residing in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Their living conditions are already dire, and monsoon season is approaching. As we share their stories, we are raising money to help build inexpensive bamboo houses for these refugees. (They are currently living in plastic tents.) Bamboo houses can be built for $600 a piece, and we’ve raised enough for over 400 so far.  




It’s been happening since our grandparents’ time. We haven’t had a day of peace. Every night the military would knock on our door and demand that we give them sheep or goats. The police would stop us on the way to market and arrest us for no reason. Just for being Muslim. They’d take us to the police station and make us clean the toilets. If you asked ‘why,’ you’d be beaten. On the night they came to burn our village, we barely survived. The bullets came through our walls all night. My brother was shot in the stomach. I thought any moment would be the end. At first light I put my daughter on my shoulder and started to run. There were pieces of people all over the road. Every time I passed a dead body, I would switch her to the other shoulder. This week I'm sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. The Rohingya are a persecuted ethnic minority who have been violently evicted from Myanmar by Buddhist extremists. Over the past year, nearly 700,000 Rohingya have been driven from their homes and are now residing in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Their living conditions are already dire, and monsoon season is approaching. As we share their stories, we are raising money to help build inexpensive bamboo houses for them. (Almost all the refugees are currently living in plastic tents.) Bamboo houses can be built for $600 a piece, and we’ve raised enough for almost 300 so far.




It was early in the morning when the military came. I woke up to a big sound that sounded like a bomb blast. Then the shooting started and everyone was screaming. We ran for our lives. It was dark and there were people running all around us. It only took us thirty minutes to get to safety because our village is close to the border. But then some of us decided to go back. There were five of us. We were curious. We wanted to see what happened to the others. We crawled on our stomachs to the top of a hill, and looked down at our village. There were so many dead bodies. Some of them were my cousins. I saw a girl from school with three soldiers kneeling on top of her. They were covering her mouth so she wouldn’t scream. I felt so dizzy. I couldn’t stand up. I used to have a dream that I was going to grow up and help my family. I was studying hard. Now I don’t even know why I’d want to live in this world. This week I'm sharing a series of first hand accounts from Rohingya refugees. The Rohingya are a persecuted ethnic minority who have been violently evicted from Myanmar by Buddhist extremists. Over the past year, nearly 700,000 Rohingya have been driven from their homes and are now residing in refugee camps in Bangladesh. Their living conditions are already dire, and monsoon season is approaching. As we share their stories, we are raising money to help build inexpensive bamboo houses for these refugees. We’ve raised enough for 30 houses so far.  




During my recent trip to Bangladesh, I spent several days outside of Cox’s Bazaar, where hundreds of thousands of Rohingya refugees have settled into camps. I’ll be sharing some of their stories over the next week. The situation is quite dire and many of the stories will be tough to read. But during this time, we’ll be having a fundraiser to impact the lives of refugees in a direct way—by building sturdy homes before the monsoon season arrives. I’ll be explaining more about the fundraiser throughout the series, but you can find it here: One limitation of social media is that you're forced to share information in small bursts, which can make it difficult to convey context. This is especially unfortunate when dealing with something as complex as the Rohingya refugee crisis. So for anyone interested in the bigger picture, I’d recommend this recent series in The Globe and Mail by photojournalist Renaud Phillipe: Hopefully as we spend the next week learning the stories of these refugees, we can also play a small part in softening their hardships.


I was tired of renting a room.  It was so much pressure.  Every month would pass by so quickly and the landlord would be knocking on my door again.  If I didn’t have the money, he would knock every day.  I couldn’t take the stress.  I just wanted a place where I could relax.  So I saved for two years to buy a house in the slum.  It wasn’t a legal house because it was built on government land, but it was all I could afford.  I tried to make it nice.  I gathered scrap wood and created an extra room.  I built my own bathroom.  I slept so well there.  Nothing was burdening me.  Then one day I got a letter on my door.  Everyone in our slum got the same letter.  It said we needed to leave because the government was planning to build a road on the land.  Armed guards came the next morning and bulldozed all our houses.  That was three years ago.  They still haven’t built the road.

(Jakarta, Indonesia)


This is my older sister’s business. I’m just helping her out. I barely knew her for most of my life. We come from a village, and she moved to the city when I was a baby. She supported our whole family. Everyone depended on her. She sent us money every month, but I barely knew her. I only spoke to her on the phone. A few years ago I followed in her footsteps and moved to Jakarta, and now we’ve become very close. I can finally witness the sacrifices that she’s made for us. She works all the time. She owns this small restaurant and runs a furniture business out of her home. Even though she’s a woman, she does all the marketing and negotiating herself. She wakes up early in the morning to search for wood in torn out buildings. When she comes home at night, her body is so tired that she goes directly to sleep. I want to become like her so she can rest. But I’m afraid I’m too naïve. When I watch her, I feel like she can do anything.(Jakarta, Indonesia)




We must teach religion in our schools. We must start them really, really young. As soon as they know how to point out basic things like ‘rock, milk, tree.’ That is the best time to start. Not too much. Just one hour a day until they are about seven. Enough to teach them the basic prayers and Arabic alphabet. It has to be compulsory. You don’t have to force them to believe. But you must force them to study. It’s the most important thing in life. All of us have animal thoughts and lust. Only with God do you start having rules. Even the Christians have rules. I have a Christian relative. They pray to God as well. And the Hindus, well I don’t really understand Hinduism, but they have something too. You must have a higher power. When a man lives without God, it’s very dangerous. You have no reference, no principles, no precepts. You are almost equal to animal.(Jakarta, Indonesia)




He had a heart attack at the office. He was only forty years old. We’d left the house together that morning, but he never came home. I was in shock. They told me to cry but I couldn’t. I lost so much weight. My children were still so young and I knew I’d have to fight alone. I’d let my husband pamper me for my entire life. We were always together. There were so many things I didn’t understand because he’d taken care of everything. He’d always driven us everywhere. I’d fall asleep in the car the moment we got on the highway. So I had to learn to read maps, and figure out directions, and how to wait for the bus. It made me so nervous when the crowd started pushing, but I learned to push too. I learned to go to the pharmacy and wait in line. It seems so simple, but my husband had always been the one who went to the pharmacy. I had to teach myself all these things. But God made it easy for me. The time has passed so fast. I supported us by working as a teacher and I’ve educated both my children. Now they’re teachers themselves. And my daughter is getting married this Saturday. My son is going to walk her down the aisle. (Jakarta, Indonesia)




We were married for three years. But my parents never approved of her. They didn’t think she was good enough. They always told me: ‘You can date her, but don’t marry her.’ And she didn’t like them either. She didn’t like to be around them because she always felt judged. Things really got bad after our daughter was born. She didn’t want to live in my hometown. She didn’t come along when I went home to visit. We got in a huge fight about it one day. I started saying bad words to her, and eventually I said: ‘Let’s just end it.’ It was an emotional decision. We have three types of divorces in our religion, and I chose the most final. Which means we are never allowed to remarry. Afterwards it felt like a dream. I shouldn’t have acted so quickly. I spoke with her recently and both of us regret the decision. My daughter barely recognizes me when I visit. But what can we do? We can’t go against the rules of God.(Jakarta Indonesia)




My mother lost her eyesight slowly. At first her eyes began to change colors. The doctor told us that she needed a surgery, and I promised her I’d get the money. It was my dream to save her eyesight. I did some repair work. I helped our neighbors with construction projects. But I ran out of time and she went completely blind. Soon afterwards she fell very sick. She had to stay in bed for months. I was always there by her side. Even if there were a lot of people at home, she only felt at peace if I was next to her. I cleaned her. I fed her. I put my number on speed dial so she could call me at work. Toward the end she began to imagine things. My family thought she was losing her mind, but I think she was just lonely in the dark. She told me that she saw children. She told me there were princes coming for her. I’d sit and talk with her about the things she saw. I kept talking to her after she fell into a coma. I prayed with her. I asked her to forgive my father. I asked her to forgive me for not saving her eyesight. I didn’t have the money. But I gave her all that I could, which was my service.(Jakarta, Indonesia)




My daughter was about to graduate high school when I lost my husband to a motorbike accident. She wanted to go to university but there was no one to support us. I’m an old-fashioned person. I’m not very smart. I only graduated from junior high school. But I wanted her to be better than me. I asked our relatives for help, but they all refused me. Out of desperation I approached my landlord. And she was the only one who supported us. She told me: ‘Get back on your feet so your daughter will have a chance.’ She loaned us half the tuition. The other half I earned by working morning to night. I was doing laundry. I was doing dishwashing. I was going around selling cookies and cakes. My daughter graduated recently and became a midwife. All my hard work paid off. We’ve been paying back the loan. And a few months ago she asked for my bank account number, and she’s been putting money in every week.(Jakarta, Indonesia)




I feel like God has given me a talent for art, and using that talent is a form of gratitude. For years I worked in an automotive workshop. I’d try to paint when I came home, but I never had any energy left. So I finally quit. Now I have more freedom to develop my talents, but it hasn’t been easy. Art is more difficult in this country. It’s not really seen as a profession. It would be easier if I was alone, but I have a family to support so there’s a lot of pressure to earn. I’m trying to be tough in poverty. I read a lot of poetry to give me strength. I would never beg, so right now I’m drawing portraits and caricatures to support myself. I’d rather be painting what I think and feel, but I have to fulfill what the consumer wants.(Jakarta, Indonesia)




Mom raised me on her own since I was young. My dad didn’t care about our family. He was there physically, but he wasn’t there. He kept all his income for himself. He gambled away our possessions. We couldn’t buy anything for ourselves because he would sell it. He sold all our electronics. He even sold our furniture. But my mother still did everything for him: cooked his food, did his laundry… everything. Then one day she came home from work and the house was empty. There was nothing left but our clothes. I told her it was time to go. For the last two years we’ve been living in a rented house together. Mom seems so much lighter now. We can own our own things. We can actually make progress and move forward in life. I've started working at a pharmacy and I'm paying my way through college. I’m still in touch with my father. I even give him money for rent and food. I have no interest in taking revenge. I’m showing him how he should have treated us. (Jakarta, Indonesia)




I’m a fund manager. One of my employees stole millions from my clients. He hid it from me for almost two years. He was working with a broker to create fake transactions. He disappeared when I discovered the scheme. I could call the police but it would be all over the press, and I’d never get another client. I could declare bankruptcy but I’m not a coward. So I’m trying to pay my clients back the initial amount they invested. I sold my other business. I sold two houses and a car. That’s why I’m taking trains and online taxis. Some of my clients feel sorry for me. Most of them are angry. A few hate me. All of them keep calling. I tell them to give me time, but they keep calling. I’m smoking four packs of cigarettes a day because of the stress. I’ve got to find fresh money. If I can get new clients, then I can slowly repay the old ones with the profits that I make. But all of them want their money now. (Jakarta, Indonesia)




Several years ago my father used our house for collateral on a business loan. When things fell apart, we lost everything. My dad got depressed and fell sick. My mother was backed into a corner. She had four young children but no income. At the time she was a very feminine housewife. But she asked our neighbors to teach her how to farm. Then she convinced our landlord to let her plant an empty field. He told her, ‘If you can make it yield anything, we’ll split the profits.’ It didn’t succeed right away. There were a lot of pests. Some of the crops dried out. But my mother harvested whatever was left, and it was enough to support our family. She cut off her hair during this time. She got very muscular. She worked all day in the fields but still found time to make sure we went to school. If my brothers and I ever started crying, she’d tell us: ‘If I’m strong enough to do this, you’re strong enough to go to school.’ (Jakarta, Indonesia)




I tried to pick my wife up from her religious group one night, but her friends told me that she’d left with someone else. She told me the guy was just a friend. But over the next few months, I started to hear more and more things. Somebody saw her coming out of a hotel with another man. Then a few weeks later I discovered them on a beach together. Then finally I came home early one day and found them in my house. I was heartbroken. Because I really did love her. I left town immediately after the divorce because I didn’t want to be reminded of the heartbreak. I’ve lived in Jakarta for three years now. I have my own shop. I’ve saved a lot of money. I’m doing better than I ever have before. My plan was to become successful and win my wife back, but my daughter tells me that she’s already remarried. So I’m hoping to meet someone else. One of my customers was left by her husband. She also has older children. We’ve been talking on the phone a lot lately. (Jakarta, Indonesia)


We were planning to swim today but then we decided to go looking for foreigners. Rayhan had never seen one before. Foreigners are fun and handsome. If you get a picture with one of them, you’ll get a lot of likes on Facebook. We found a few already. There was one family from France that was really nice and let us a take a picture. Then we found one other girl but she was kind of snobby. She said some words in English and walked away quickly. Maybe she was feeling sick. (Jakarta, Indonesia)




It was spontaneous. I didn’t ask for permission. We’d been dating for five months, so I just decided to go for it. We were standing on a beach. Watching the sunset. I waited for the perfect moment when she wasn’t paying attention. Then I leaned in and kissed her on the cheek. At first she was silent. She gave me a bit of a side look. I thought I’d messed up. So I pointed at the waves and pretended that I saw something in the ocean. I let things cool down for a few months before trying again. (Jakarta, Indonesia)




I tried to start a business right out of high school. I didn’t have much experience. But a mutual friend showed me a business model and I agreed to partner with him. We supplied wholesale groceries like onions, barley, and garlic. My partner did the purchasing and kept all the books. I just supplied the money to purchase more stock. I was completely dependent on the information he gave me. And at first we showed a lot of profit. Every time we filled an order, there would be an even bigger order. So I just kept putting more money into the business. That went on for four years. But when I finally tried to take some profits, my partner claimed there was no money. He showed me an entirely new set of books. He’d stolen everything, and I couldn’t prove a thing because I hadn’t been keeping my own records. I hid it from my wife for days. We had two kids and I’d just lost everything. But when I finally told her, she supported me. She only told me that I couldn’t sit around and think about it. So I got a job as a taxi driver. I was done with business forever. That was twenty years ago. Both my kids are educated now. They’ve grown up to be good human beings. And that guy never changed. He kept cheating people. Last I heard, he was in hiding somewhere.(Dhaka, Bangladesh)




These types of shops are notorious for cheating people. A lot of them use fake parts to fix your car. But I take pride in doing things right. And most of my profits go back into the business. I could stash all my money in the bank, but I’d rather use it to create jobs. I support five employees with this shop. I handpicked them myself. All of them were being paid horribly at their old jobs. They were living in horrible conditions. They had families to support but were barely making enough to feed themselves. So I paid them double, gave them shelter, and gave them food. If the work is getting done, they can have as much freedom as they want. I don’t give them metrics. The most important thing is that they’re happy. (Dhaka, Bangladesh)




The land where I grew up was very rich. The property was empty when my father bought it, but he plowed it with cows and grew many crops there. He built it up from nothing. I have many memories there as a child. The land was next to a river. There were lots of coconut trees. The trees didn’t belong to anyone but they felt like my own. My father died when I was five years old and passed the land on to me. It was my only possession. It was my back-up plan. I worked as a janitor in the city, but I always returned to visit my mother and bring her money. It was in my twenties that I began to notice that the river was eroding the soil. Every time I returned, a bit more had fallen into the water. There was nothing I could do. We stayed until the water was five feet from our door. On the day we left, my mother told me: ‘One day you’ll realize how hard your father worked for this.’ And that’s the hardest part. The land was my only memory of my father. And now I can’t show it to my kids. I feel like it’s not just my inheritance that’s underwater, but all my father’s hard work.(Dhaka, Bangladesh)




My mother passed away during childbirth, and a woman from a nearby village tried to purchase me from my grandfather. At first he was insulted, but the woman kept begging, so he finally agreed to marry her into our family. She never breastfed me. She never showed me affection. And the moment she had children of her own, she abandoned me. I was ten years old at the time. Her new husband threw my school bag into a lake and told me to go find work. I moved straight to the city. There were times I was so hungry that I made soup out of goat food. But I never begged and I never stole. There are a lot of bad people in the city, but I was lucky enough to meet the good ones. People who showed me the right path. A restaurant owner let me live with him in exchange for washing dishes. Then when I was fifteen, an old Pakistani man taught me how to drive, and I became a bus driver. I met my wife while driving that bus. We have three children of our own now. I have nothing to leave them when I’m gone. But all of us are well fed and well housed. (Dhaka, Bangladesh)




My boyfriend would do all sorts of crazy things when we first met. We’d talk until four in the morning. He said he’d die to be with me. But the moment he knew that I was falling for him, he suddenly grew cold. He’d call me names. He’d disappear for days every time we argued. And he started spending time with other girls. He said they were just friends, but it bothered me. Plus he would never commit. I asked him for a commitment because my parents are trying to fix my marriage, but he just listened to me cry. He wouldn’t say a word. During one of the periods that he wasn’t talking to me, I reconnected with an old crush from my childhood. And this new guy treated me so well. He even came to meet my parents to show that he was serious. But my boyfriend logged onto my Facebook and discovered our messages. And he started crying and begged me not to leave. He said he’d marry me if I came back to him. So I did. But now he’s saying that he hasn’t decided if he can forgive me.(Dhaka, Bangladesh)




I feel like girls aren’t safe anywhere. Maybe I’m watching too many crime series on television, but I’m scared to ever leave her alone. I even get nervous when she goes to school because the driver is male. I do my best to teach her to be safe. I tell her how to react if a man approaches her. I tell her what is not appropriate. But she’s so shy. She’s silent around adults. So I’m scared that she won’t stand up for herself. And that if something happens, I’m afraid she’ll never tell me about it.(Dhaka, Bangladesh)




Invention is my hobby. I want to invent all kinds of inventions. Many things I have invented already. This is my first invention, which is quite small. It is a generator. One motor can generate electricity from the other motor. I will make a bigger one when I get some money. There are so many wonderful inventors. There is a scientist named Dr. Hanson who has made a wonderful robot that can talk. She can’t say her favorite color, but she is still a beautiful robot. Dr. Hanson is a great scientist and wonderful man. I will be a great scientist too. One day I will go to Australia and make a flying car that doesn’t make pollution. I already have the idea in my brain.(Dhaka, Bangladesh)


I started this business two years ago when I was twelve. An older friend told me that we could make good money selling fruit. We buy the fruit from villages and bring it to the city where it gets a much higher price. My friend is six years older than me, but he couldn’t keep up, so I set off on my own. I work every day. I’ve already made enough money to buy some land. I’m going to build a house and use the rest for farming. My parents tell me that I should be in school. I respect their views, but I also make more money than them. So it’s hard to listen. Plus I’m learning a lot about business. Even though I’m skipping school, I don’t think I’m skipping education.(Dhaka, Bangladesh)




I always sat in the first row. I always had the highest rank in class. I wanted to be a teacher, just like my teachers. But when it was time to enroll in grade seven, my mother told me we couldn’t afford it. I cried and begged but she just stayed silent. My teachers were so sad that they offered to pay half of the tuition. But it wasn’t enough because we'd still have to pay for the books and exams. So my mother made me understand that school was not in my luck. I’m still seventeen, but now I’m married and I work as a maid for a family. I wash their clothes, wash their dishes, clean their bathroom. Their house is near a school. So every morning I have to watch the children walk by in their uniforms. (Dhaka, Bangladesh)




My husband passed away when my children were very small. I taught myself handicrafts to survive, but it barely earned enough for us to eat. When my oldest son turned eighteen, I found him a wife. I was hoping that she’d help with the household. But she abandoned us after my granddaughter was born. I came home from work one day and found the child alone. I could only get her to stop crying by soaking an apple in goat’s milk. I’ve been raising her ever since that day. She calls me ‘mummy.’ With a lot of hardships I have made her grow. She survives on apples and milk. But I’m old. And when I’m gone, I don’t know who will take care of her. (Udaipur, India)




Today in microfashion(Calcutta, India)




I want to be a police. I’ll find the robbers because they have handkerchiefs on their faces. I’ll tell them that it’s bad to steal. And to never steal again. Then I’ll hit them with a stick and their mom and dad will yell at them. And if they don’t listen, I’ll hit them with a stick again.(Udaipur, India)




I’m known for my honesty. My grandfather taught me that it’s better to carry rocks on your head than to make a dishonest living. I’ve never taken a bribe. I’ve worked in the judicial court for decades and have been offered all sorts of money and gifts. A hospital once offered me an entire floor of their building, if only I’d settle a dispute in their favor. I told them to take it up with someone else. (Udaipur, India)




After we met, I got tired of waiting for him to call. So I dialed his number, let it ring once, and hung up. When he called back I told him it was an accident. Then we spoke for an hour. Now we’re on our honeymoon. (Udaipur, India)




We’re from different castes so we have to meet in secret. My parents would never approve. When my older sister married someone outside of the caste, everyone stopped talking to her. So we have to be careful. My parents actually know about him. He sent me a bunch of heart emojis once and my Mom picked up the phone. I tried to say we were just friends but she saw the words ‘Darling’ and ‘Sweetheart.’ She slapped me when she saw it. She thinks that we don’t talk anymore. When I’m financially independent, I’ll finally tell her the truth. But it’s going to be bad. -Calcutta, India


I want to do something for our nation. At first I wanted to be a doctor, but I discovered another path to saving lives. I’m studying agriculture now. I’d like to help invent new seeds to increase yields. Small farmers in India are struggling. They just can’t compete with industrial farms. Most of them live in isolated villages, and it costs too much to bring their goods to market. It can be cheaper for them to dump their crops on the side of the road. Meanwhile people in our country are going hungry! It doesn’t make any sense. But if we invent new seeds that increase the yield of their land, small farmers can survive. If I do my job well, there will be no need for doctors. Also my mom would like to see my name in the newspaper. (Udaipur, India)




Marriage is about two things: sexual satisfaction and building generations. Nothing more. Only useless people are thinking about love. The result of a love marriage is never satisfactory. Divorce, arguments, affairs. These things don’t happen in arranged marriage. Arranged marriage is always successful. Love is for useless people. But if you’re going to feel love, at the very least, make sure it’s someone of a similar income level. (Jaipur, India)
I used to drink beer every once in awhile.  That was all.  But several members of my family died in a few years time.  The worst was my brother.  He was younger than me.  And after his death I lost all control.  Now I can’t stop drinking.  I’ll quit for a few weeks at a time, but then I’ll get this feeling: ‘Let me have a little bit today.’  Then I’ll drink continuously for five or six days until the shivers kick in.  It’s ruining my health.  It’s causing me to neglect my work.  My family is ashamed.  And I live with a constant feeling of doing wrong.  But I can’t stop.  And even if I did, I feel like I’m too old and it’s too late.

(Jaipur, India)


I came to the city when I was twenty and became a fruit seller. It’s allowed me to build a house in my village. I feel healthy. I get to eat. A lot of people don’t get to eat on time. So I’ve gotten everything I wanted. The minute you think: ‘I have a lot’—that’s the moment your spirit is at rest. My spirit is at rest. (Jaipur, India)


One night there was a huge storm and he didn’t come home from work. I had told him to sleep at the shop, but he wouldn’t listen to me. And by nighttime he still hadn’t arrived. The trains shut down. The phones stopped working. I sat by the window all night with my children. I asked everyone who walked by if they’d seen him. The next morning I went to the temple and said so many prayers. Then at 11 AM, I heard the bell ring. And there he was. He was soaking wet and completely covered in mud. He smelled awful. I started crying so hard. I made him some hot tea and a little food, and he went straight to bed. When he finally woke up, I informed him that he would be moving his shop next to the house.(Mumbai, India)


I sell grain for people to feed the pigeons and cows. It’s a way to get good karma. This has been our family’s business for eighty years. It began with my grandfather, then my father, and now it’s mine. I have about 250 or 300 clients that I see every day. Things were going very well. We had two houses. A car. Lots of gold. But a few years ago my brother-in-law got kidney disease. Our family spent everything to save him. We travelled all over India. People said: ‘go here, go there,’ and we always went. And we always paid whatever they asked. My mother even donated her kidney. But nothing worked. He died seven months ago. My parents passed away soon after because of the stress. Now I’m all alone. I own nothing but a scooter. I still believe in karma. Without it I have nothing left. But only God knows what I did to deserve this. If I knew, I wouldn’t have done it.(Jaipur, India)


I don’t want her to depend on anyone when she grows up. From the very beginning, I’ve been dependent. I barely left my home until the age of eighteen. I'd only walk from school to home, and even then I’d be accompanied by my brother. I had no idea how to face the world outside. I never even learned to ride a bike. It’s going to be different for her. I told my husband: ‘Whatever she wants to do, I’m going to support her.’ And I’ve already gotten a bike for her. The moment she is old enough, I’m teaching her to ride a bike.(Jaipur, India)


We let her pick the kite."

(Udaipur, India)


We moved to the city thirty years ago when I was a small child. We hardly had a penny at the time. My father sacrificed everything for us. If I needed new clothes, he’d wear old clothes. And he never complained. If business wasn’t good, he’d keep it to himself so we wouldn’t have to worry. Once when I was twelve years old, I really wanted a bicycle. So he bought one for me. Shortly after that, I noticed that he wasn’t wearing his favorite ring. He told me that he was getting it fixed. When I became an adult, I asked him again: ‘Where is that ring? I want to make one just like it.’ Finally he told me: ‘I sold that ring to get your bicycle.’ (Jaipur, India)


Today in microfashion(Mumbai, India)




The only time they’re peaceful is when they’re watching cartoons. They argue over everything. They fight over toys. They call each other names. But as much as they fight, they also can’t live without each other. Anytime I try to separate them, two minutes later they’re talking again. (Jaipur, India)




My wife passed away last month. She started shivering when she came out of the bath, and then she fainted. I took her to the hospital but she had a heart attack before I could admit her. I’m trying to stay busy. I’m OK when I’m at work, but the minute I enter my home, I begin to think about her. Her photographs are still by my bedside. Thankfully my ten-year-old grandson has been sleeping with me. He watches my shows with me. And he talks constantly. He goes on about his school and his class and his teachers. A lot of what he says is nonsense, but I enjoy it. And when he falls asleep, I fall asleep.(Jaipur, India)




I came to the city when I was twenty-one because I wanted to meet my favorite actor. I thought that I’d wait outside his apartment, and he’d appear shirtless on his balcony just like in the Bollywood movies. But he never came out. I didn’t want to go home without meeting him because all my friends would laugh at me. So I slept on the streets. I had no money to survive. I began working at a bookstall just so I could eat. And every day after work I’d return to his house to see if I could find him. I finally got my chance when there was a big movie premiere. I knew he’d be there. I waited along the rope line and met all of the other actors. But when my favorite arrived, he walked past without greeting anyone. He didn’t even make eye contact. I was heartbroken. He didn’t even acknowledge his fans. At least now I have a bookshop. I can thank him for that. (Mumbai, India)




I love that she loves love." (Jaipur, India)




My sons used to protect me from my husband. He’s an alcoholic and he becomes violent when he drinks. He beat me so bad once that it injured my spine. My sons used to stand beside me. They’d try to stop it. They’d scream at him not to hit me. Then afterward they’d comfort me. But they’re teenagers now and they’re starting to go down the same path. They stay out drinking until 3 AM. I can’t get them to wake up in the morning. Today they got in a fight and one of them punched his fist through a window. There was blood everywhere. I came out here to calm down but my hands are still shivering. I don’t know what to do. I ask them to stop drinking but they won’t listen. There’s nothing left for me. I gave them life, I guess that’s all I can do.(Mumbai, India)




I didn’t get accepted into any of the universities that I wanted, and I ended up going to a lesser quality school. I hated being there. On the first day, I thought about buying a plane ticket and going home. I felt like I had nothing in common with the people around me. I felt like they belonged and I didn’t. My plan was just to survive get through six lectures a day, keep to myself, and get back to my dorm room as soon as possible. I didn’t even talk to my own roommate. I’m ashamed of it now. I was so rude and self-centered, and it ended up making me lonely and miserable. I felt depressed. I was barely sleeping. Then one night I overheard my roommate talking on the phone with her mother. And I could tell she was having family problems. After she hung up, we stayed up all night talking. I told her that I was having a hard time too. She became my best friend after that night. We’d have dinner together. Whenever I left the room, she’d ask me where I was going. It felt so good to have someone worry about me. It’s been an important six months for me. I’ve realized how much I need other people. By not valuing the people around me, I was only hurting myself.(Mumbai, India)




I'm trying to live my life without conflict so I don't say much." (Mumbai, India)




I was a full time housewife. I kept mostly to myself. I was a very shy person. Then one year a local school asked if I could volunteer to teach art to the children. Just one hour every day. I did such a good job that the next year they asked me to teach full time. My husband didn’t want me to do it. He said: ‘You told me it would just be one hour. But I told him: ‘I listened to you for twenty-five years, now it’s my turn to take the reins.’ I ended up teaching for fifteen years. I built such a good reputation that children came from other schools to join my class. The whole school threw a party when I retired. The children sang songs and danced. It just made me feel so special. Teaching was the best decision I ever made. Now I feel like I’ve done something positive with my life. (Mumbai, India)




I don't know how old I am." (Mumbai, India)




I resented my mother for the longest time. She was always affectionate. There’s nothing mean-spirited about her. But she has some sort of condition. I used to be embarrassed to bring friends over. She was always fidgeting. She couldn’t sit still. There were a lot of monologues, and often they didn’t make any sense. When I was young I didn’t realize it was mental illness. Especially because the subject is taboo in India. So I’d just get angry with her. I’d victimize myself and blame her for everything. But I’m older now, so I’m trying to be more patient. I’ve met a lot of people who don’t even have mothers. So I’ve stopped fighting it. I don’t nag her. I hug her more. And I listen to her, even if she doesn’t always make sense. (Mumbai, India)


My mom made me a birthday dress!"


When I was a child, it was up to me to feed our family because my father couldn't work. I had a job at a motorcycle repair shop. Everyone would sit at home and wait for me to make money. Once we almost ran out of food. We didn’t have a single rupee and there was nothing to eat. I could handle it, but I couldn’t bear the thought of my baby sister going to sleep hungry. I sat at my shop all day, praying for a customer. But nobody came. Then just as night was falling, a man drove up with a puncture in his tire. The price of the repair was three rupees. But when I was finished, the man handed me twenty rupees and drove away. I was able to buy two kilograms of rice. My entire life turned around that day. My shop became very busy. We were never hungry again. Even today I think about that man. I never saw his face. He changed not just my life, but the lives of my entire family. I wonder who he was. Sometimes I think it was God himself.(Mumbai, India)


I have a big book about tiger conservation, and I always knew that the ocean was in trouble. But I didn’t really become an environmentalist until I got to grade one. That’s when I thought of many interesting ways to help. Some things you can do are reduce waste, carpool more often, spread awareness, plant trees, not cut trees, cut carbon emissions, and reduce nuclear disposal. I’m too young to start nuclear disposal because it’s dangerous and I don’t have the proper gloves. But I do recycle and keep plants on my balcony.(Mumbai, India)




My mother’s friends say that I’m just like her. She died of breast cancer when I was two years old. I had to grow up fast because my father was always working and seldom around. I was doing my own laundry at the age of seven. I figured the puberty thing out on my own. During high school, I’d leave for entire weekends without my dad even asking where I’d been. Then one year at Thanksgiving, my aunt told me that my mother had left me a letter and a video. She got so angry when I told her I’d never gotten it. I confronted my Dad about it, and he said that he ‘remembered something like that.’ He drove me to a safety deposit box—but the box was empty. He couldn’t remember what happened. He had one job. One thing that would mean more to me than anything else, and he couldn’t do it. My mom’s friends always tell me: ‘She would be so proud of you,’ or ‘She was so in love with you. But that’s not the same. It’s not the same as something directly from her. Something she made especially for me. Just one thing that actually says: ‘This is how much I love you.’




I’m pretty sure I’m a sociopath. Or something close to it. My parents were pilots, so I spent most of my early childhood on a small island in Tunisia. The only other kids were the children of a local hotelkeeper. I was so isolated that I even invented my own words. By the time I got to high school, I was a monster. I only cared about being the best. I was a bully. I’d argue just for the sake of arguing. I would destroy any belief, just to be right. My behavior is different now. But I think I’m still a sociopath. I’m not sure I feel empathy. But I do always try to make the empathetic choice. It’s an intellectual thing for me. I’m intellectually convinced of the need for empathy. I choose to help other people. I choose to be a reliable friend. I have a wonderful wife who judges me by my actions, and not my reasons for them. Sometimes I feel like Pinocchio. Was he a real boy? Yes, because that’s what he always strived to be.




I was late to the delivery room when she was born. But as soon as I walked in, her eyes started tracking me. Like she knew I was her Dad. Even the nurses were laughing about it. She’s always been my road dog. She never went through a ‘teenage phase.’ She never stopped wanting to spend time with me. We could always talk about the problems she was having at school. Even as she got older, we’d still go to the park on Saturdays or find some exotic place to eat in Brooklyn. It’s a little tough now that she’s away at college. I miss spending time with her. But I trust her completely and I want her to enjoy these years. I just hope that when she falls in love with some dude, I’ll still get to see her.




Saturn is leaving Sagittarius and moving into Capricorn today. Things that may have been otherwise will now become reality. The time for talking and thinking is over. Now is the time to do.




Being famous won't be easy because I'll have to sing in front of a lot of people, and I get nervous. But I already sang in front of eleven people in music class. And I made a video on my mom's phone that eighty-two people watched on Instagram."


A really bad divorce triggered the first and only manic episode of my life. It was my body’s attempt to avoid feeling any pain. I was sleeping three hours a night and doing handstands in the morning. I did a whole lot of writing. I’m a contractor so I taught myself all sorts of plastering techniques and developed an entire series of finishes. I worked as a carpenter for twelve hours every day. Eventually I pushed myself to the point where I injured my shoulder, and the doctor told me that I couldn’t work anymore. It forced me to slow down, confront the illness, and make friends with that part of myself. Now I’m on a mood stabilizer. I’m not operating in a triggered state anymore. And I’m back to work, but this time with a team of people to help me carry the load.




I'm still having trouble even saying the word "divorce.' I had always planned on only being married once. And now I’m not. I’m getting older now, and I always wanted to be a Mom but I’m not. And that’s really hard. The house feels so empty. It still looks like two people live in it. I’m clocking my progress by the moments I’m not crying. And as long as I don’t think about any of these things I’m fine. My career is going great. I can choose to not think about it. But I’ve got to. I’ve got to ask myself: ‘What happens if he never apologizes?’ , ‘Will I be fine if he never make amends?’ I’d rather not think about this stuff because it hurts. But I know it’s the only way to move on. I can either think through it now, or I can carry it with me forever.




My husband had a sudden heart attack a few months ago. It was just a few blocks from here. They called me in to identify his body and then just let me walk right out onto 7th Avenue. I felt so lost. My friends were wonderful and supportive but eventually everyone moves on with their lives. I don’t have children. And I’m not a workaholic. So I was left with this intense loneliness and void. I couldn’t eat. I couldn’t sleep. Then one day I started researching dogs that are good for grief and depression. And ‘poodle’ kept popping up. But when I went to the rescue fair, all the poodles were gone. There was this one old dog in the back that nobody was looking at. She was skin and bones. She was trembling and scared and mucus was running out of her eyes. She seemed so fragile. She reminded me of myself. I named her Grace because I think my husband sent her to me. She’s my first dog. She’s been pure joy. We spend all our time together. She’s gained her weight back. She comes with me to therapy. We’re getting better together.


I grew up on a reservation because my father was Cherokee. The only thing he believed in was destroying things. When I was five years old, he sat me down on the couch and said: ‘You’re going to become a man the same way I did.’ First he made me smoke a Camel unfiltered cigarette. Then he gave me a shot of ‘corn stalk hooch.’ It’s liquor made from the silky stuff at the top of corn. Most adults can’t handle it, let alone a kid. It took me a whole day to finish. Every time I threw it up, he’d pour another one. My mistake was that I kept trying to smoke the cigarette first. You’ve got to drink the liquor first so it numbs your throat.




I moved to Havana after September 11th. I opened up the first English language bookstore. It’s been great, but living there has been a major challenge to my introversion. When I lived in New York, I could choose to not interact with people. But that’s not really an option in Cuba. Introversion isn’t really ‘a thing.’ If you’re alone, then something must be wrong. Birthdays are the worst. My friends make me have a party every year. I’ve got to have one slice of cake before I’m allowed to go home. And I have this 86-year-old neighbor named Terasita that always assumes I’m lonely and brings me fritters. I resisted at first because I really value my alone time. I’d lock the doors. I’d turn off the lights. But resistance is futile. They’re so persistent.


I almost married my high school sweetheart. She was a sharp girl. Very kind. Long brown hair, slim the whole package. We moved to California together after graduation. We spent all our time together. We were in love. We even talked about marriage several times. Then one morning she decided she didn’t want to do it anymore. She told me things had changed. It destroyed me. Ever since then, she’s been the one that I’ve always wondered about. I actually saw her a couple years ago. She came to New York for her father’s funeral, and we took a walk in Central Park together. I hadn’t seen her in forty-five years. She looked amazing. Exactly the same as I remembered. She had two kids. She’d gotten married to some guy from Yale. Toward the end of our walk, she told me that if she could do it all over again, she probably would have never married the guy. I said: ‘That breaks my heart, because all these years I imagined you were happy.’ Of course, there might have been a small part of me that was thinking: ‘Haha! You married the wrong guy.’




I just moved to New York, so it’s been a little tough meeting people. It seems like everyone already has their own group of friends. So I’m trying to become more of a ‘yes’ person and do things I normally wouldn’t do. Like I came to the park today instead of sitting at home. And I went to my first hockey game yesterday. And I joined a dodge ball team on Thursday nights. Dodge ball is a lot more pressure than I thought it would be. I try to hang back and not throw the ball, but then usually I’m the last one and everyone is aiming at me. The only consolation is knowing that it’s going to be over in two seconds. And after the game we all go to the bar. Our team name is ‘We Throw Things and Drink.’




The bridge to Rikers Island is called the Bridge of Pain. You’re on this bus. You see the city behind you. And in front of you, you see nothing but four walls. I was sent there for a year when I was nineteen years old. My friends and I got caught stealing copper pipes from a construction site. All of us grew up together. I thought they had my back. But none of them came to see me in prison. I had zero visits. Nobody put money in my account. So I haven’t talked to any of those guys since I got out. I work two jobs now. I stay out of trouble. I’m trying not to be a negative person anymore. I still have anger problems. I think it’s because there was so much yelling and violence in my house growing up. But whenever I feel the anger coming on, I just close my eyes and rub my ears. My baby brothers used to rub my ears when I was growing up. When things got bad in the house it always used to calm me down.




I want to be a comedian. A lot of people in my class think I’m funny. Sometimes it can be hard to think of a good joke that isn’t about Trump. But even if you don’t get any laughs, you can usually just keep silent for a few minutes and try again. Sometimes I accidentally make jokes that only I get. Like the other day I tried to tell a joke about that lady who handed out cashews instead of candy for Halloween. But only my friend Aiden knew about the Cashew Lady so nobody laughed. But then later my teacher asked where I got my sources for my constitutional rights paper. And I told her I got them from ‘a sorcerer.’ Even she laughed at that one.




A lot of younger people pass by me while I’m running. It’s a bit of a metaphor for the rest of my life. I turned forty-seven in October. I’m starting to have bosses that are younger than me. It’s causing me to question what my experience is worth. I’m noticing that my younger colleagues are more adventurous and take more risks—either because they don’t know about failure or they don’t care. As I get older, I feel like more and more of my life is outside my control. That’s why I started training for the marathon. I want to be in control of something. I can’t control current events. I can’t control politics. I can’t even control my personal relationships. But I can control my legs. I can put one leg in front of the other. I can decide the miles that I run each day, each week, each month. And it feels great. I get a rush every time I make it to the top of a hill."




We had our son through a surrogate, so we didn’t get to watch the pregnancy day-by-day. We didn’t see the stomach getting bigger. We didn’t have the same sort of emotional preparation as traditional parents. It’s like one day we weren’t parents, and then the next day we are. He was born two weeks early so we had to quickly jump on a flight. But we got to the hospital late. We actually met our son for the first time in an elevator. We were heading up to the room, and the nurses were bringing him up from the nursery. They noticed two guys carrying luggage, and said: ‘I think this might be your son!’




She originally said she didn’t want kids. And I originally told her I was completely fine with that. But that was a lie. I guess I just thought we’d grow into the idea. She also told me that she never wanted to get married—and she changed her mind about that. So I thought she'd change her mind about a child too. Honestly, I would be disappointed if we didn’t have one. I think something magic happens when you open your heart to another living thing. But I don’t want her to make a decision for my sake. So maybe the solution is just to be disappointed. Maybe I’m just selfish. But I value our time together. And I want to continue spending time on ourselves. Plus I just don’t feel very maternal. I’m afraid that I’ll convince myself for his sake, and I’ll will myself to believe that I want a child, but then I won’t feel that connection. But he will. And then it will be the two of them and me.




I normally don’t tell people I’m a Christian because they assume you’re a zealot, or parochial, or close-minded. And I don’t think I’m any of those things. I go to a progressive church. We bring in great speakers and do a lot of volunteering. My religion is just a centering part of my life. It gives me guideposts. It gives me a code of ethics and helps me see dignity in other people. Sure, there’s a storybook nature to it. And it can be a shame that people focus so much on the story. I'd rather focus on the message the story conveys.




I work at a disposable razor factory. We used to have seven hundred workers. There were lines of people down conveyor belts. Now there’s only four hundred left, and most of those are just temporary. Machines do everything now. Anything that required hands, at least. We used to look at the razors through microscopes trying to find imperfections. Now the computer just takes a picture. Even the forklifts drive themselves. Soon there will be nobody left. People are just too expensive. You can’t stop it. I tried my own little protest for a while. I told myself that I wasn’t going to buy any of the cheap stuff from Wal-Mart. But that didn’t last long. I couldn’t afford anything else.




I’ve been at the same company for nine years. I should have moved up by now. But I’ve just never been good at office politics. I assumed my work ethic and performance would be enough. But some people are just better at getting recognized. They ingratiate themselves with the boss. They have no problem taking credit for other people’s work. They’ll diminish your accomplishments and inflate their own. I’d never go that far. But I’m not waiting to get noticed anymore. If I beat a deadline, solve a tough problem, or get great feedback from a customer—I’m copying upper management on the email.




My husband is running for city council in Long Beach and it's been a difficult race. His name is Joseph Naham. He didn't get many contributions or media coverage because he's running as a Green Party candidate. He's optimistic, because that's who he is, but there's a chance he might be a bit hurt by the results tonight. So I got him these flowers to thank him. He put his whole heart into the race. This wasn't a power play for him. He genuinely wanted to help the community. I just want him to know that no matter what happens, he's planting seeds, and they're gonna grow, and that's what it's all about."




I just tried to go on my first run post-wedding. I wanted to make it three miles but I couldn't do it. Toward the end I tried switching my soundtrack from techno to gospel, but I still had to stop. Too much eating during the honeymoon. You should have seen me on the wedding day, though. All that hard work paid off. That tux fit like lotion."




I had an awakening on a balcony in Seattle. I was listening to soul music on my Walkman. And I was paying attention to the music. And suddenly I realized that I was the attention itself. I realized that I’m not my mind—I’m the awareness of my mind. We’re all just drops of consciousness and if you get to the point where you can turn around and see your drop, you’ll discover that it’s connected to an ocean of consciousness. And then you’ll be illumined. I don’t care if anyone believes me. I’m not trying to convert anyone. There’s nothing to convert because everyone is exactly where they’re supposed to be right now.




You know how when you see a group of geese in a field, and there’s always one with its head up, looking around? That’s me. I was always afraid. Just anxious. It’s like my mind was a heat-seeking missile, always honing in on what could possibly go wrong. My first daughter got the brunt of it. I was so worried about everything. Her first plane ride. Her first day of school. Her first sleepover. I thought if I anticipated every little thing that might go wrong, then maybe I could fend things off. But that’s never possible. Things will always go wrong. The best you can do is give your kids self-confidence. But I’m afraid I passed on my anxiety instead. Because when Mom is always afraid of the world, the world becomes something to fear.




We met five years ago in the comment section of our Wordpress blogs. I was living in the Philippines. I randomly discovered his blog and commented on a post about how much he can eat in one sitting. Then it became one ongoing conversation for three years. We began our relationship on August 24th 2013 when I wrote ‘I love you’ in an email. We talked every day, but we didn’t even meet in person until two years later when he came to visit me in the Philippines. He proposed the very first day. We stopped working on our old blogs and created one together called Two Bees In A Blog.




I found out on my 21st birthday that my dad was leaving my mom. At first I was angry with him. It seemed extremely selfish. But when I finally agreed to talk to him, he told me that he’d been depressed for five years. He told me that he’d felt trapped in his life and his marriage. He even told me that one night he drove out to a bridge, thought about killing himself, and only changed his mind at the last minute. Part of me empathizes with him. I never realized he was hiding this depression from us. But at the same time he made choices that really hurt our family. So I’m trying to figure out what blame he deserves. At what point is a person with mental illness still responsible for their choices?


Today in microfashion




Today in microfashion




It was a tsunami. In April of ’82 there was an article in the New York Times about a new gay cancer, and everyone thought ‘oh well.’ I was in my twenties. I wasn’t worried about a thing. But then every week you started to hear about somebody becoming ill. My boss was one of the first. He was a famous florist. He went into the hospital on Thanksgiving and was dead by Easter. I lost most of my friends. A lot of the first men to die were privileged. They were closeted, corporate white men. During the day they were bankers but at night they’d hit the leather clubs and bars. But they learned their privilege didn’t matter after they got sick. They were just ‘gay.’ We had to fight for AIDS to be recognized by the government. We joined together with people of color, and junkies, and prostitutes. It was a beautiful thing, really. Our feminist lesbian sisters taught us how to protest because they’d been doing it for decades. They showed us how to organize meetings, and bring people together, and force the government to the table—things we’d never had to think about as white men.




Today in microfashion




At first I told myself I could get past it. I said, ‘Let’s just see how it goes.’ We had excellent dates. Everything else about her was exactly what I wanted. I didn’t want to ruin something good for that one little reason. But it’s been 1.5 years. And I feel horrible, but I just can’t get past it. And I feel like a bad person for being bothered by it. I can’t bring myself to tell her. We’re going to couple’s therapy next week, but I still don’t think I’ll be able to say it. Is there any right way to ask someone to lose weight for you?


Zoe loves the movies. So I knew if I was going to propose, it had to involve the movies. But I can’t make a movie myself because I don’t work in film. So I had to get creative. I ordered a black-and-white Italian film from a vintage film dealer. It seemed vaguely romantic. I spent four months editing it on my computer. I changed all the subtitles. I cut out the harem scene. I completely changed the plot so that it resembled our lives. I wrote some dialogue about picture frames because Zoe’s family owns a frame shop. And I love trains. So I made the main character a train enthusiast. When I finished the editing, I rented out a small theater with sixty seats. I invited all of Zoe’s friends and family. I made sure everyone sat in the front and didn’t turn around. The weather was beautiful that day. Zoe didn’t want to go to a movie. We got in a big fight about it, but I finally convinced her. I was so nervous that I laughed during the whole film. I’d seen all the jokes 1000 times but I laughed at them anyway. Then during the final scene, the main characters started speaking to the audience, and one of them asked: ‘Does anyone here want to get married?’ So I stood up. The lights came on. All her friends and family turned around. And I gave a speech that I prepared. I was so nervous that I forgot to ask the actual question. But Zoe bailed me out and said ‘yes’ anyway.




My mom went off when she found out I was gay. It’s not accepted in Jamaican culture. I had to pretend I was ‘over it’ just so I could stay in the house. I didn’t really have anyone to talk to about it. I was always getting in fights with other kids. I didn’t even have a real friend until I was seventeen. I joined my school’s volleyball team, and the coach paired me up with a boy named Winnie to work on drills. I was still in the closet. He was much more flamboyant than me. He’d make me laugh. We’d talk about other boys on the team. He showed me how to not take myself so seriously. And we had similar backgrounds too. Winnie lived in a single parent home. His mother didn’t accept his lifestyle either. Sometimes we’d talk on the phone at night. Or we’d get a slice of pizza after practice. These were things that I’d never done with anyone before. I never pursued anything romantic because I couldn’t risk the friendship. It was the first time I didn’t feel alone.




I came to America when I was six years old. Mom said she brought us here so that we’d have opportunities in life. She said that back in the Bahamas, it’s only the ‘haves’ and the ‘have nots.’ She wanted us to have more choices. But I don’t think she fully understood how things work here. She was a news reporter back in the Bahamas. But the only job she could get here was taking care of oldpeople. My dad could only work construction. We moved to four different states just so they could find work. They always told me, ‘Just study hard in school and everything will work out fine.’ So that was my plan. I got all A’s up until the 11th grade except for one B in math. My goal was to get top twenty in my class, then go to college, then get a degree, and then get a job. I realized the truth my senior year. My guidance counselor told me I couldn’t get a loan. I couldn’t get financial aid. Even if I could find a way to pay for school, I probably couldn’t get a job. I felt so mad at everyone. There were some kids who completely slacked off in school, but even they were going to college. I started having panic attacks. My dad told me not to worry. He called me a ‘doubting Peter.’ He invited all his friends over to a fish fry to help raise money. And he did get $3,000. But that wasn’t enough. So I searched really hard on the Internet and found the Dream.us scholarship. My mom was so excited when I got it. They’re paying for me to go to Queens College. Now my mom’s really scared again because DACA got revoked. She’s crying all the time at work. I try to tell her that no matter what happens, we’re not going to die. We just might have to start over.




I was on a leadership team in 5th grade. At the end of the year we were supposed to take a trip to Washington DC. We held fundraisers and everything. But when it was time to go, I didn’t have the identification papers to buy a plane ticket. So our teacher Ms. Rivera decided that we’d take a bus. Just so I could go too. That trip changed my life. It made me want to be a lawyer. And Ms. Rivera became one of the closest people in my life. She always kept in touch. She basically watched me grow up. One time in high school I got in a huge fight with my mom, and Ms. Rivera came and took me on a long car ride. I started to tell her everything. I told her about a recent break-up, and how I smoked weed, and ‘I did this,’ and ‘I did that.’ She just listened to everything. Then she started telling me about her life too. She told me that she’d been in an abusive relationship. I’d always thought her life was perfect because she was a guidance counselor. But she’d been through so much too. When it was came time to apply for college, Ms. Rivera was the one who helped me apply for DACA. She told me about the TheDream.us scholarship. I didn’t even want to apply. I was ready to give up. I’d just accepted that I’d always work in restaurants like my mom. But Ms. Rivera made me apply. She said: ‘What happened to that girl who wanted to be a lawyer?’ I learned that I got the scholarship in February. They're paying for my entire college. Ms. Rivera was so proud of me. She kept saying: ‘I told you so.’




I was just a year old when my family came from Ecuador. My parents were always open with me about it. Even from a young age. I was lucky that way a lot of undocumented kids don’t find out the truth until they’re much older. Their parents never tell them because they want them to feel normal. So the kids grow up thinking that they’re 100 percent American. Then they try to study abroad, or apply to colleges, and they find out they don’t have the papers. And it hits them hard. It’s like they’ve got to figure themselves out all over again. They learn that they aren’t a part of the culture they grew up in. And they start to feel a sense of shame. Nobody ever talks about it. They’re too afraid. I certainly never told anyone. That’s why DACA was so interesting. It gave us the smallest amount of safety. People started to step out of the shadows, and say ‘I’m here.’ We began to find each other. Now there’s a community. And we’re speaking out together. We grew up in this culture. We grew up with the same kids as everyone else. This is our home.




We were pretty poor back in Mexico. My parents were divorced. Mom did the best she could. She was always a hustler. She’d sell jewelry, or food, or anything that she could. But a lot of nights there still wouldn’t be enough to eat. We’d survive on tortillas and salt. I was only eight when we came to America. So I was too young to understand. I think my mom thought she could make some money and bring us home. She thought she’d learn English, and maybe start a business. But it was so much harder than she expected. We moved so much looking for work. She’s fifty and she still cleans houses every day. Every year she gets more worn down. She’s been getting sick a lot lately. But she can’t afford to stop. She never will. Right now I’m in school. I always thought I had to be the best student because I’m undocumented. I thought I’d go to law school, or graduate school. But now I’m not so sure. My mom would literally destroy her body to make that happen for me. How could I allow that to happen? I’m a Dreamer. And everyone loves the Dreamers because we’re a perfect package to sell. But why am I the only one who gets the chance to feel safe? Whenever I hear ‘I stand with Dreamers,’ I always think about my mom. I’m not willing to throw her under the bus. I'm not willing to be a bargaining chip to make her seem like a criminal. Everything people admire about Dreamers is because of our parents.


I got divorced when I was sixty-four. We had a good run. We were married for 36 years. We’re not enemies. We just outgrew each other. When the kids were in the house, all our focus was on them. But after they left, there just wasn’t any reason to keep doing it. We were just living our own lives—together. Neither of us was all that interested in changing. So what’s the point in staying together? If you talk to most people my age, and they’re really being honest, they’ll tell you that they’re dissatisfied with their partner. But then they’ll shrug their shoulders and say: ‘Where else am I going to go?’ Because most people can’t stand to be alone. My ex-wife and I never had that problem.




My first time was October 18th, 2013. I was a freshman in college. I was alone in my dorm room and I’d just eaten a bunch of Halloween candy. So I purged it. I felt great afterward. I thought I’d discovered a new tool. It seemed like a way to stop gaining weight. But it became very powerful, very quickly. My second time was two days later. Soon it became most meals. I became addicted to watching the numbers drop. I lost all power over it. I was dizzy and depressed all the time. I couldn’t focus in class or go out with friends. For five months, I lost all control. Then I finally got help. I started talking about it. And the more I talked about it, the more control I got back. The eating disorder lost its power when it stopped being a secret. I’m much better now, but I’ll always be recovering. A few weeks ago I had a relapse. It was the first time in months. Even though I was disappointed, I reminded myself that it wasn’t the end of the world. I haven’t lost all the progress I’ve made over the past four years. I just need to stay positive. And keep talking about it.




My mother was sixteen when the war came to St. Petersburg. She was the oldest of four children, so her parents chose to evacuate her first. She was supposed to find a job and the rest of the family would follow. She was evacuated with a factory. The workers were on one boat and the machinery was on the other. The boat with the machinery was bombed and sank to the bottom of the river. My mother ended up in a city thousands of miles away. Sometimes there was such little food that she survived on grass. But everyone who stayed behind in the city died. Her entire family was killed in one night. Growing up, she always told us about St. Petersburg. She hung paintings of the city all over our house. So we wanted to bring her back here before she died. When we arrived in the city, we went straight to visit her old house. Only the foundation was left. But when we got off at the subway stop, the strangest thing happened. Two children came running toward us. Their mother was calling after them: ‘Sonya and Misha!’ They had the same names as me and my brother. It was as if they were greeting us.(St. Petersburg, Russia)


I met him six months ago at work. I’m the manager of a store. He was a delivery man. He was playful and fun. He’d bring me coffee and buns in the morning. He started driving me home at night. We began dating and recently moved in together. But a few weeks ago I called his cell phone and a woman picked up. She started asking who I was, and said she wanted to know why I was calling ‘her man.’ Afterwards he told me it was a big misunderstanding. He said it was his ex-girlfriend, and he’d been with her for nine years, so he still feels a responsibility to provide for her. He swears it’s just a material relationship. But she calls him all the time now. He’s not my property, and I don’t want to lose him, but I just want him to make her go away. But he acts like it’s my problem. When I tell him it bothers me, he just says: ‘I’ll ask her not to call at night.’ (St. Petersburg, Russia)




She needed people around us and I didn’t understand that. I was locked on the two of us. There was a Russian writer who wrote: ‘I hated the world so that I could love you more.’ And that was me. I stopped talking to my old friends. I stopped spending time with people from work. And I wanted her to do the same. I was jealous, maybe. She was much younger than me so that made me feel insecure. I don’t think I wasn’t being mean. I was just asking her not to go to work parties. She left me 258 days ago. We’d just come back from a holiday by the sea, and everything seemed fine. It was just like always. We were swimming, drinking wine, going to cafes. I had no idea it was coming. One morning we were having coffee in the kitchen, and she said: ‘I don’t love you anymore.’ It was two months straight of drinking vodka after that. I lost thirty pounds. Only now is the wound starting to heal. I’m getting used to being lonely. (Moscow, Russia)




I don’t get to live the life of a seventeen year old. My mom is always working and I have a six-year-old brother. So I have to do everything that a mother would do. I take him to kindergarten, pick him up, feed him, clean up after him. I don’t get to take breaks. I can’t play sports after school. I can’t get extra tutoring. But it’s not my mom’s fault. She’s trying to save money for me to go to college. And she tells me every day that I’m a wonderful daughter. But it’s been very difficult for me. The only good thing is that I can understand adult problems already. I don’t take anything for granted and I know that life is not easy. It seems like my friends aren’t even studying to get knowledge. They’re studying to get an allowance. So I think I’m more mature than most seventeen year olds. But at some point I would like some time to take care of myself. Or maybe even have someone take care of me for a change.(Moscow, Russia)




I’m trying to undo old patterns. If she does something that was prohibited in my own childhood, I automatically react. It comes from inside of me. So if we need to go somewhere, and she’s resisting, and I feel like yelling, I’ll turn it into a game. I’ll be the mother cat, and she’ll be the kitten. Or we’ll both be princesses going on an adventure. Honestly, I think the pretending helps me more than it helps her. It’s what forces me out of those patterns.(Moscow, Russia)




I graduated more than one thousand kids from elementary school. I'd still be teaching but my eyes went bad. It’s such an important time in a child’s life. It’s when they learn speech, grammar, and how to pay attention. It’s when the tree gets its roots. If you’re taught wrong in elementary school, you’ll be trying to catch that train for the rest of your life. (St. Petersburg, Russia)




My daughter was injured during birth. Her back was broken during labor. She’s in her thirties now but she still has a lot of problems, especially in her mind. She can’t be left alone. Sometimes she doesn’t even know where she is. It’s like she’s living in a ghost world. It’s been very difficult for us. My wife had to stop working and became severely depressed. We can’t travel. We can’t be active. I try not to resent my daughter but it can be hard. Sometimes she gets very aggressive. When she was younger, she threw all of our possessions out the window. I don’t think many people could have handled it. They’d have taken her to an institution by now. But I can’t do it. Those places are very scary. But my wife and I are getting old. We have no other relatives. So that’s where she’ll end up one day. I try not to imagine it. But it’s inevitable.(St. Petersburg, Russia)




I’m fourteen and all my friends are crazy about being grown ups right now. They’re drinking alcohol. They’re smoking cigarettes. They’re trying to act vulgar. They’ll do anything to separate from their parents and prove that they’re independent. Personally, I’d like to be a child just a little bit longer. I love spending time with my parents. I’m not in a rush to get away. I’d like these times to last as long as possible. (St. Petersburg, Russia)




We met six months ago at a dance night. His wife passed away three years ago. I’d been married for thirty years and gotten divorced. It was just nice to have someone to talk to. We have so much in common. My ex-husband only wanted to stay home and watch TV. But we do all sorts of things together: walk around the city, go to museums, travel. Have sex.Hush.What? We’re still young.(St. Petersburg, Russia)


It wasn’t an official marriage. We didn’t register. But we had a plan. I was earning good money even though I was young. I was already a specialist at the age of nineteen. She was very beautiful. We’d been together for four years. She was a good person and very easy to talk to. She’d met my family and everyone loved her. At the time I was helping to construct a new subway line in Moscow. I came home from work one day and she was gone. There were no cell phones back then. Nobody knew where she was. She’d last been seen getting into a private taxi with her friend Natalya. A lot of people were disappearing during that time. The police stopped searching after a few months. She wasn't seen again. There’s a line from a Russian poem. It says: ‘We love just once in a lifetime. And spend the rest of our lives looking for something similar.’ I’ve had other girlfriends after Oksana. But I don’t remember their birthday. Oksana’s birthday was July 9th. She was a Leo.(St. Petersburg, Russia)


I quit my job earlier this year. I’m taking a little time to focus on myself. I worked from nine to six everyday. I often brought my work home with me. I was getting sick, and anxious, and I wasn’t sleeping well. But I could never accept my weaknesses. I’d see other people working harder than me, and I’d think: ‘If they can do it, why should I feel tired?’ Eventually I pushed myself so hard that I became depressed. One reason I couldn’t slow down is because my entire family is hard working. Both my parents are architects. My grandfather is an engineer. The importance of hard work has been passed down through the generations. I think the entire country is afraid to stop working. There have been so many hard times. There’s been so much hunger. For so long we had to work all the time just to survive. Even though things are better now, that’s a difficult to psychology to escape. I’m starting to interview for new jobs. But I’m asking different questions. Money is the last thing I worry about. I’m much more interested in the schedule. (St. Petersburg, Russia)


I came here to meet a girl that I know from the Internet. She's coming all the way from Belarus. It's nothing sexual. Just a friendship. Her name is Olga. We’ve known each other for seven years but this is the first time we’re meeting in person. She’s supported me through a lot of hard times. I get bullied a lot. People at my school often call me names and try to start fights with me. They send love letters to other guys in my name. Olga has comforted me a lot. She checks in with me throughout the day. She says things like: ‘You don’t deserve it.’ And ‘Don’t pay attention to them.’ Her messages have really helped me get through the last few years even if they were just words on the Internet.(St. Petersburg, Russia)


We were together for nine years. I was completely dependent on him. He was a strong and powerful man and he expected obedience. If he called me at 4 AM, and told me to meet him in Moscow, I was expected to go to the train station. He had a very strong energy. It was hard to argue with him. In the beginning of the relationship, I obeyed because of the pressure. But then the pressure just became a habit. It got worse as time went on. Eventually he stopped listening to me completely. I became so lonely. When you’re with someone who doesn’t care about your views, and has no desire to understand you, it’s worse than being alone. I still loved him though. I knew that he’d had a hard life. I told myself that I had to make sacrifices to build a family. But one morning I woke up and decided that I couldn’t do it anymore. If I stayed in the relationship, I would lose myself completely. I remember it was raining that morning. There was mud in the streets. And something told me: ‘Today is the day.’ That was two years ago. I’ve spent these last two years learning to be alone. I’m realizing the things that I like to do. I feel better, I look better, and I’ve been sharing more of myself with others. I feel like I’m finally learning who I am. (St. Petersburg, Russia)




I’m ninety but I feel like I’m fifty. I don’t take any medicine. I never complain. I’m just happy to be alive. I tell people: ‘Start with what you have, not with what you want.’ Every day I dance for two hours. And I’m still really interesting too. I love politics and literature. I love the sciences. And I’ve got a boyfriend named Alexander. We exchange books. I don’t even know how old he is. (Moscow, Russia)




My father died in his sleep last year. Right after my birthday. I didn’t have a good relationship with him. He left the family when I was ten. We had good moments but we were never really close. I wanted him to understand me. I wanted him to realize that I needed support, and love, and somebody to take care of me. I needed him to say ‘I’m sorry.’ But he never did. Whenever we talked, all he cared about was getting across his side of the story. And then he died. And now I have to forgive someone who can’t say ‘I’m sorry.’ I feel like I’m playing this game of chess. And I have to keep making moves, or nothing will ever change. Except that there’s nobody sitting across from me anymore. And I can only guess the moves that he’d make.(St. Petersburg, Russia)




There are always two little beautiful humans looking at me like I'm the most important thing in the world. They copy everything I do, especially my son. I’m very careful how I treat my wife because I know that’s how he’ll learn to treat women. I call my wife pet names, and my son started calling his sister those same names. Recently I picked flowers for my wife. And the next day he picked flowers for his sister. (Moscow, Russia)




I’ve worked in the circus my entire life. I studied to be a clown for many years. A great clown can make you see your own clumsiness. There are many famous clowns. Einstein was a clown. I always think of that famous picture of Einstein sticking out his tongue. That is a sign of extreme intelligence. Dumb people are always working on their serious face. They think a serious face will make them seem intelligent. But intelligent people don't need a serious face.(Moscow, Russia)




I was only eighteen when my first daughter was born. Her name was Svetlana. She came down with an infection but there were no antibiotics in the hospital. I begged the doctors and nurses to tell me where to buy them. But none of them would tell me because they were afraid to go to jail. I finally found some American medicine on the black market. But weeks had already passed and it was too late. The antibiotics didn’t work and my daughter passed away. Up until that moment, I had considered becoming an artist or a dancer. But I decided then to become a doctor. (Moscow, Russia)


I’m afraid I’ll live a useless life and nobody will remember me. I don’t feel a strong interest toward anything. If I do, it’s just a momentary thing, and then I drop it. I tried acting. I tried swimming. I tried dancing. But I got bored with all of it. If I don’t choose something soon then I’ll leave nothing behind. We only have a certain amount of energy in life. If you don’t put it somewhere then it’s wasted. I feel like one of the little yellow minions from that movie. They get sad if they don’t have a villain to serve. When I have a goal, and I’m moving toward it, and I reach it, then I feel a little relief. That’s what life is to me. A series of goals that you move toward. I don’t think it’s possible to just become happy. Life’s not that easy. But if you keep moving, you can forget that you’re sad. (Moscow, Russia)


I cut my hair the other day. It used to be down to my waist. It’s a personal experiment. I’m trying to prove to myself that I can have short hair and still be feminine. It can be hard when I step out on the street and all the other women have long hair. I think a lot of people see short hair, and form an idea that I hate men, or that I only think about business. But I still feel feminine inside. I guess I want to prove that feeling has nothing to do with the type of attention I’m getting.(Moscow, Russia)


This is a picture of me before I lost my job. It was only a year ago but I barely recognize that person now. I was thirty pounds heavier. I was much more confident. It felt like a guardian angel was guiding my steps. Things always seemed to work out for me. Now it seems like my guardian angel is drunk. Now I look at this picture and see a man who’s wearing a mask. The man in the picture wants to be seen as a person who does important things. He wants to be seen as confident, and harsh, and a leader. He wants to be seen as an attorney. Now I just want to be seen as a person. Someone who’s calm. Who’s balanced. Who loves his friends and family. And who’s kind. (Moscow, Russia)




Today in microfashion(Moscow, Russia)


I’m the lead singer in this band because he can’t hear very well. But I’d like to say that he’s a wonderful man. You should have seen him when we met in 1953. Green eyes. Black hair. A little gray on the side. All my girlfriends were so jealous. He had no money so he sold his best suit to buy me fruit and flowers. I used to get entire letters from him that were written in verse. He still writes in verse but just little notes now. I think he might have run out of verse.(Moscow, Russia)


I’ve sold thousands of pieces of latex in my life and I’m a doyen of the fetish scene. I love to get people from ‘here’ to ‘there.’ ‘Here’ is having a fetish and hiding it. ‘There’ is exploring it. Trust me, your dark secret is nothing I haven’t heard before. It’s nothing to be ashamed of. It’s just what you’re into. And there’s plenty of other people who are into the same thing. You should never feel shame. Unless of course shame gets you off.




I have four boys. I was a single mother for most of my life. But I’ve been a good mother. I’m going to pat myself on the back for that. It wasn’t easy. I struggled hard. In my twenties, I got kicked out on the street with four young kids. But I made sure they were always safe, fed, sheltered, and had proper clothes for the season. They always had bikes and skates. And I kept them busy. I signed them up for everything: karate, basketball, swimming, you name it. I paid for it all. I didn’t want them spending time in the streets, so I’d work overtime just to keep them busy. I never had much left over for myself. I sacrificed a lot for them. I still wake up at 3:30 every morning to beat the traffic across the bridge. But they always come first. Because they never asked to come here. They were my decision.




My mother had always been functional as long as she took her medicine. But a couple years ago I began to notice a change. When we spoke on the phone, she’d laugh at the smallest things. Everything was a joke to her. But then she could also get very angry. She became convinced that people were plotting against her. She kicked all my siblings out of the house. When I went home to California, I discovered that she had drawn lines and circles inside all of her books. She seemed fixated on certain times and dates. Everything bothered her. She started calling me ‘faggot’ and things like that. It’s been a tough two years. She’s gotten worse and worse. I’ve flown back to California four times, but we barely speak when I'm home. It’s like she’s not even there. Meanwhile I’ve stopped investing in my friendships. I’ve had to drop out of my dance company. I’ve been getting depressed. Even when I’m not with her, I’m worrying about her. It’s getting to the point where I have to choose not to care about this. I have to think of her as gone. I didn’t create this. I created my life. And I don’t think I can take care of us both.


I always wanted to be a mental health therapist.  Ever since high school, I've enjoyed encouraging people and giving them hope.  But I lost my way.  I got caught in a world of addiction.  I lost ten years of my life to drugs.  I stopped when I became pregnant with my child, but by that time it was too late to go back to school.  I started working as an office manager.  I never completely lost my dream.  But I just put it on a shelf for thirty years.  Then five years ago I took it off the shelf.  I heard a lady in my choir talking about how she enrolled in community college.  I drove there the very next day.  I was so nervous when I filled out the application.  I was so nervous the first day of class.  All the old voices were telling me: ‘You never finish anything.’  But I said ‘fuck you’ to the old voices.  And I started getting A’s.  On my first test, I got the only perfect score in the class.  I graduated at the age of 50.  I got my Masters at 55.  And just last night I completed a mental health first aid course.  I’m so close now.  There’s still fear there.  I used to be afraid of it never happening.  Now I’m afraid of it happening.  The old voices try to come back sometimes.  They tell me: ‘You can rest,’ or ‘You’ve earned a break.’  But I’m not stopping this time.  Somebody out there is waiting for me to finish because they need my help.


Both my wife and I were raised in Guyana. Neither of our families demonstrated much affection. Physical contact was always reserved for discipline. There was a certain harshness in our household that I believe was passed down from slavery. Slaves were always punished for showing affection. They were never allowed to bond. And the effects of that have been passed down through the generations.My wife and I aren’t passionate people. We don’t express our feelings. We don’t say ‘I love you.’ We just banter back and forth. But now she’s sick with a major diagnosis. I’ve had to do everything for her: the shopping, the cooking, the housework. I try to be as responsive as possible to her needs. It’s the only way I know to show her that I care and I feel and I hurt.


First grade will be more harder than kindergarten cause I won't know how to write all the words."
My older brother was my hero growing up.  Everyone called him ‘Jise.’  He was this hip-hop dude.  People loved him, especially the girls.  Everyone knew when he walked into a room.  I was the opposite.  I blended into the crowd.  I was quiet.  I made straight A’s.  I liked comic books and action figures.  So I always looked up to him.  He was murdered one night in 1989.  Somebody shot him.  I was fifteen at the time, and I just kind of gave up.  I thought our family was cursed.  I always had this feeling that I was up next.  So it was like, ‘What’s the point of being good?’  I dropped out of school.  I started hanging out with the wrong crowd.  We started robbing people.  I never actually took anything myself.  I just tagged along for the adrenaline high.  Even at my lowest, part of me was always the same good kid.  I always held down a job.  I wrote poetry.  I kept dream journals.  Whenever we were getting into trouble, my friends would always tease me.  They’d say: ‘This isn’t you, man.  Why are you here?’  Hip-hop saved me.  It gave me a voice.  I started doing open mic nights.  I took all those dream journals and turned them into lyrics.  I joined a group called The Arsonists.  We toured all over Europe.  We pressed a lot of records.  Of course I always held down a second job.  My proudest moment was when they wrote about us in The Source.  My stage name was ‘Jise,’ in honor of my brother.  It was like I’d gotten us both there.
My English is not good.  Spoken English is very difficult.  But I want to study at Columbia so I am trying to improve.  I decided to come to America because of Forrest Gump.  I’ve watched the movie five times.  I like Forrest very much.  Forrest is very simple.  He picks one thing, and he keeps going.  When I was young, I thought Forrest was stupid.  But now I have a different view.  I think people are too complicated.  They complain about everything.  Forrest never complains.  Forrest chooses one thing and he keeps going.  I watched the movie last month to encourage me.  My life is hard because people don’t ever know what I’m saying.  But I just think of Forrest.  Forrest figured everything out because he just kept going.
My mother wasn’t the best person in the world.  She was hooked on heroin for most of my life.  She sold our childhood home for drug money.  She left me alone to raise my brother and disabled nephew.  I used to wake up every night to feed him and change his diapers.  I supported us all on the $5.15 an hour that I earned from the grocery store.  My mother passed away a few months ago, and I think I’m just now coming to terms with how awful she made my life.  This is the most stable I’ve ever been.  I have a permanent address.  I have someone who legitimately loves me.  But my anxiety has never been worse.  I’ve been having panic attacks recently.  I think I've never had to deal with the trauma because things were always coming at me.  And now I’m not sure how to handle the quiet.
                                                                                                                              Graduation weekend was a nightmare.  My parents haven’t spoken to each other since my dad had an affair.  Yet they both wanted to come to the ceremony.  So we spent the whole weekend together.  Except they didn’t speak a word to each other.  It was ninety percent silence and ten percent me talking about nothing.  The celebration dinner was the worst.  Nobody said a word.  I ended up drinking a lot of tequila.  I tried to fill the silence by commenting on every single dish on the menu.  I made several observations about my pasta.  Then I spent an hour ‘looking’ for the perfect dessert place on Yelp.  I’m pretty sure at some point I even pulled out the subway map and described how the entire system worked.
I lost my job last week.  I was there for six years.  It was the first job I’ve ever lost.  It’s hard not to take it personally when someone tells you that you’re not needed.  There were ten people on my team, and I’m the one they chose.  So my mind has been running through all the possible things I could have done wrong.  The first few days were the hardest.  I spent a lot of time crying.  But my birthday was a few days ago, and my friends took me out for a taco night.  And it woke me up.  I started laughing.  I couldn’t even remember why I'd felt so sad.   My life was so much bigger than that job.  I’m healthy, I live in a wonderful city, and I have a great group of friends.  I just lost a small piece of the pie.
I don’t think I’m going to miss eighth grade.  It’s been a tough year.  A lot of my friends are struggling with depression and self-harm, and it’s hard for me to watch.  I just care about them so much.  Growing up is so hard for some people.  It’s such a big thing.  It’s your foundation, I guess.  You’re becoming you.  It’s such a big thing and we’re going through it right now.  Some of my friends are struggling with loving themselves and loving life.  I think they forget that we’re still learning.  They think that they’re already who they’re going to be.  They think they know the future.  And it’s going to be horrible.  And they’ll never be able to fix it.  But that’s not true because we’re still changing.  And we’ll always be changing.  Even when we’re old, we’ll be changing.
I grew up in an abusive household where I never got any approval.  I always felt unattractive and gross.  But everything changed the first time I walked into a gay club.  Everyone turned to look at me.  I was the newest thing.   I felt like I could have anyone I wanted.  It was the first time in my life that I felt a sense of power, and I became addicted to it.  I started using sex as a way to satisfy my juvenile need for approval.  And that need didn’t go away when I found a long-term partner.  I tried to tell him about it one time.  We were walking in this park, and I told him about my strong desire to be with other people. I thought maybe if we could talk about my feelings, they would go away.  But he took it personally.  He teared up.  He looked like he’d been stabbed in the heart.  So I took it all back.  I never mentioned it again.  Until he caught me cheating on him.
I’m driving to pay off my student debts.  I had to start college late because my father had a stroke shortly after I graduated high school.  He couldn’t afford to stop working.  So I worked in a fried chicken restaurant seven days a week while he recovered. When he first came home from the hospital, I carried him down the stairs.  He had tears in his eyes.  My father emigrated from Pakistan in the eighties.  He worked hard so that I could have a better life.  In that moment, I think he saw that I’d turned into the son that he’d always hoped for.
I’m turning thirty in July.  And I’m still working out a lot of childish things in my dating life.  I’m learning how to communicate.  I’m learning to ask myself: ‘What do I want?’ instead of ‘What can I take?’  I’m learning that another person can never ‘complete me.’  And I’m learning that in certain moments it’s OK to not like somebody—even if you love them.  It’s taken me longer to figure this stuff out because I had to hide my identity for so long.  I know that nobody ever fully arrives, but heterosexuals definitely have a head start.
I’m practicing French right now.  I want to move to Europe so I can force myself to start over.  I have a nine-to-six job.  It’s a good position.  They pay me well.  I love my team.  But everything just feels so familiar.  There’s no discomfort or uncertainty anymore.  On weekends I go to the same neighborhood bar.  I eat at the same restaurants that I know are good.  I take interesting vacations, but even those tend to follow a regular pattern.  As much as I tell myself that I'm being adventurous when I hike in Peru—it’s a very planned risk.  I think a new city will be good for me.  I’ll start out alone.  I’ll be forced to reflect.  I’ll have a sense of unexpectedness.  I want to feel like a tourist in my own life again.
He’s an actor on Broadway.  I broke up with him in December because he couldn’t manage his anger.  He’d scream at me on subway platforms.  Once he busted my lip while trying to grab something out of my hand.  That was when I finally ended it.  But he called me on New Year’s Eve and asked if he could go to a party with me.  We’d bought our tickets months earlier.  They were expensive so I agreed.  My sister was coming with us so I wasn’t worried.  Everyone had a great time.  At the end of the night, we dropped off my sister and went back to his place.  I was so drunk that I curled up in a pile of clothes.  When I opened my eyes he was taking photos of me and laughing.  I immediately decided to leave.  It was literally the start of a new year and I wanted to begin on a good note.  He yelled at me to come back but I kept walking.  He followed me down the stairs and grabbed my arm.  He told me to ‘stop acting stupid.’  Then he pinned me up against the side of his building.  He was choking me and saying ‘calm down, calm down, calm down.’  A van drove by and started honking at us.  But they didn’t stop.  They didn’t help me.  I broke free and ran into traffic but nobody was stopping.  He caught me, and pushed me up against a van, and lifted me into the air by the neck.  When I woke up on the ground he was gone.  I asked the judge to sentence him to anger management courses.  He's finished them.  But I’m still dealing with the trauma of that night.
’I’m obsessive, but my obsessions are productive.  I’m happy.  I never get depressed.  I find life very interesting.  I paint for hours every day.   I have 100,000 postcards at home organized geographically.  And I’ve written a story about every day of my life between 1981 and 2011.  I have 20,000 pages of notes.  Right now I’m in the editing phase.  I’ll be done with that in a couple years, and then I’m going to copy the entire thing by hand.  There's no way I can  trust computers with something this important.  I think I can finish the job in ten years.  I’m pretty sure I can live long enough.
I asked her out during a movie.  I was really nervous, so I executed with about half the talent level that I could have. I accidentally swallowed some cologne in the bathroom because I tried to open the packet with my mouth.  Then I never actually had the courage to ask the question.  I waited until there was a scene in the movie with a boyfriend and girlfriend, and I said: ‘That could be us.’  It felt good coming out of my mouth.  But then I looked over and saw confusion.  But I rode out the awkward silence, and eventually she figured it out.
I just had to sit down because I got short of breath. I was at a restaurant earlier where the manager had to seat me at the counter because I couldn’t fit in the booth.  I have pain in my knees and my joints. I sleep with a breathing apparatus at night.  And I’m a great candidate for a heart attack.  I hate it.  I hate the way I feel.  But I’ve been overweight for so long that people assume I don’t want to lose weight.  Friends and family wonder why I don’t just stop eating.  But it’s an addiction for me.  When I walk past a bakery, I feel the same way that an alcoholic must feel when he walks past a bar.  But people seem to think that the alcoholic is unable to quit.  And they think I choose not to.
I grew up outside of Miami. It wasn’t easy to be young, black, and gay in my neighborhood. It was a very masculine space. All the guys played basketball or football. They wore oversize clothes. There was a clearly defined idea of what it meant to be a man. And I spent a lot of energy trying to meet that standard. I didn’t like sports but I played anyway. If I ever got bullied for acting feminine, or hanging out with girls, I’d take it to the extreme and insist on fighting. The black man is expected to be a rock. I think it comes from our history. We were abused for so long, I think there’s a resistance to ever being vulnerable again.
Having a child was the best thing that ever happened to us.  But it is constant company with terrible conversation.
I feel like I’m just starting, but I think I’d be fine if it all went away.  I get that from my mother.  From the moment I started singing, she always reminded me that all of this was a privilege, and could be taken at any moment.  So singing is not how I define myself.  I try to keep my identity rooted in my friendships and my faith.
She has the biggest heart.  Everyone sees her success as an athlete, but all of that is layered on the size of her heart.  She gives 100% of herself to everything she does: as a friend, as a lover, and soon, as a mother.
He’s so sexy.  And he taught me the importance of being silly. Being silly is so important.  Silly is the opposite of grief.  It’s throwing yourself into a moment without care.  You can’t always maintain your status as a dignified person it gives you blinders. When you always expect the world to fulfill your expectations, it wears you down.  It closes you off. So sexy.
She always responds with empathy.  She meets anger with empathy.  She meets hate with empathy.  She’ll take the time to imagine what happened to a person when they were five or six years old.  And she’s made me a more empathetic person.  I had a very fractured relationship with my father.  Before he died, she made me remember things I didn’t want to remember.  She made me remember the good times.
They try to manipulate me.  But I’ve got it figured out.  A hug in the morning is normal.  A hug at night is normal.  A hug for no reason means that we saw something we want on television.(Lima, Peru)
I live with my mom and uncles.  There are twelve of us in one house.  Everyone is sacrificing so that I can go to university.  My mom works in restaurants and cleans houses.  All her money goes to my tuition.  She always tells me just to focus on school.  We were short on money last semester, but she told me: ‘Don’t worry about it.  I’ll find it.  You just continue.’  She’s always been like that.  She never wants me to be stressed.  My dad passed away when I was a young child.  So we’ve always struggled.  Sometimes when I was growing up, there would only be enough for one meal.  And my mom always said that she wasn’t hungry.  I didn’t realize until I was older that she had only been pretending.(Lima, Peru)
I knew my husband very well.  We’d been living together for twenty-one years.  So it was obvious that something was going on.  Suddenly he started playing guitar and writing songs.  The songs were OK, but I read some of the lyrics and they clearly weren’t written for me.  He started wearing cologne.  He started liking new foods that he’d never even tried before.  So I was suspicious.  Then one night he came home crying.  I said: ‘What happened?  Did you kill someone?’  He told me that he’d gotten a girl pregnant.  She’d just had the baby and didn’t want to keep it.  Then he asked me if I would raise it!  I said: ‘Sure, give it to me.’  I arranged to meet the woman in the park, and she handed me the boy.  He was only three days old.  He felt like my son the moment I held him.  I got rid of my husband a few months later.  But I kept the baby.  He’s sixteen now.  (Lima, Peru)
He’s always acting so serious.  The last time we went out with my friends, he looked like he was constipated the entire time. (Lima, Peru)
I’ve been sitting here for three hours trying to figure out what to do.  I need to make a sale.  Rent is due in a week and I don’t have the money.  I’m already starting to miss payments on a loan I took out recently.  I made two cold calls today and both of them went like shit.  I’d never do anything bad to get money, but who knows.  I’m beginning to dread going home.  My kids are small and want to be with me all the time, but I’m so stressed that I have no patience.  I’ve been losing my temper easily.  We were at my brother-in-law’s house this weekend, and he’s doing much better than I am.  His kids have a bunch of toys.  My son kept begging me to buy the same stupid little toy truck that his cousin had.  And I yelled at him to forget it.  I only had enough money in my pocket to get us home.(Lima, Peru)
I’m about to meet up with my ex-girlfriend.  We broke up two weeks ago and I’m hoping to get back together with her.  I restricted her freedom too much.  I scheduled all our classes together.  I always wanted to know where she was.  It all started a year ago when she cheated on me.  She called me immediately afterwards and confessed.  But ever since then, anytime she’s away from me, I always imagine the worst.  She goes out with friends and some of them are male.  So it’s hard for me to not get suspicious.  And if I get suspicious, she gets nervous.  Which makes me even more suspicious.(Lima, Peru)


We're talking about how important it is to take a shower every day." (Lima, Peru)


My mission is to get them interested in Star Wars. My only chance is to get the big one hooked first because that’s how my kids work. I pitched Princess Leia as the most important character. I might have told a little lie and said that she was the princess of the entire galaxy. We had our first attempt the other day. I got whiplash checking to see if they were still awake, and I lost both of them before Princess Leia even showed up. I have faith in George Lucas though. We’re scheduling another screening with lots of candy. I think if we can just stay awake for the entire movie, we’ll be ready for The Empire Strikes Back.(Lima, Peru)


My mission is to get them interested in Star Wars. My only chance is to get the big one hooked first because that’s how my kids work. I pitched Princess Leia as the most important character. I might have told a little lie and said that she was the princess of the entire galaxy. We had our first attempt the other day. I got whiplash checking to see if they were still awake, and I lost both of them before Princess Leia even showed up. I have faith in George Lucas though. We’re scheduling another screening with lots of candy. I think if we can just stay awake for the entire movie, we’ll be ready for The Empire Strikes Back. (Lima, Peru)
I’m starting from nothing. I lost everything back in Venezuela. I had my own natural soap factory but the crisis made it impossible to get ingredients. Then the government began to take 70% of my earnings. I had to close it down. Things got so bad that I couldn’t even find food for my baby. I had a little money, but there was nowhere to buy food. I’d wait in line all day for one bag of flour. We could go days without eating. When I tried to breastfeed my daughter, I’d almost faint. Leaving the country was my only chance. I’d never said ‘goodbye’ to my daughter before. She was screaming my name when I left. It hurt worse than giving birth. But I didn’t have a choice. I told her that I was going to Colombia. I told her that I was going to make a diamond, and I’d bring it back to her. Now I sell key chains in the street. When I make some money, I send packets of food back home. I’m trying to keep a good spirit. I’m doing OK. I grew up very poor. I came from nothing. So I’ve been here before.(Bogotá, Colombia)My interpreter Juan has kept in touch with Rose, and we put together a small fundraiser if anyone would like to help:


I didn’t even start gambling until I was 43. I thought I was mature, but I was as vulnerable as a child. I started going to the casino once or twice on the weekends. It was a social thing. I’d just play cards with my friends. But I had good luck in the beginning. I started to win. And I started to love it. I couldn’t wait for the weekend. Soon I started to go during the week. I’d work the early shift and I’d have all afternoon to play. I abandoned all my responsibilities. Once you start playing you forget that you’re hungry, you forget that you’re thirsty, you even forget that you have a family. I lost the grocery money, the rent money, everything. Winning felt great. And losing made me need to win. I’d make up excuses every time I came home empty handed. I’d say that I was mugged, or that my work hadn’t paid us that week. Eventually I had to sell my car. I lost our house. I lost my wife. We’d been together for twenty years. I just took for granted that she’d always be around. The only thing that I didn’t lose was my daughters. They sat me down one day, and said: ‘Dad, either quit gambling, or quit this house.’ And I never played again. (Medellín, Colombia)




Sometimes I’d start crying in class for no reason. Then when I got home from school, I’d just go straight to my room. I couldn’t even talk to my mom about it because I’d just start crying. People would tell me: ‘Just get up, exercise, and take a walk.’ But none of that helped. Things got so bad that even the school was watching me. I started bawling during a chemistry exam and I ended up in the school psychologist office. I remember thinking: ‘I don’t care if I ever see another chemistry exam again. Or my friends. Or my mom.’ And I started to get this feeling that I was definitely going to do it. I was going to lock myself in my room that night and take a bunch of pills. The only thing that stopped me was imagining my mom finding my body. That was three years ago. That time seems so far away now. I found a great therapist. I learned so much about myself. There’s so much that I want to do now. I want to travel. I want to get married. I want to have kids. There are so many poems that I haven’t written and songs I haven’t heard. So it’s terrifying for me to think that I came so close. My problems were small back then. They were teenage problems. But I came one step away from not being. And I had made the decision to take that step. I’m afraid that I can go back to that place again. And next time, my problems will probably not be so small.(Bogotá, Colombia)




(3/3) The night I deserted was the most frightening moment of my life. The guerrillas would have killed me if I’d been discovered. I ran away in the middle of the night. I found a road and hitched a ride with an oil truck from Ecuador. I tried to cross the border but the army arrested me. I thought for sure I would be executed. But they gave me the chance to demobilize. The first thing I wanted to do was see my family. It was too dangerous to return home so I sent for them. I thought my father would push me away, but he was very happy to see me. My sisters told me that my disappearance had been very hard on him. He had gotten very sick. I’ll always live with that regret, but we were able to spend four years together before he passed away. I’ve rebuilt my life from scratch. Leaving the guerrillas was like being born again. I had no skills. There was a lot of prejudice against me. I had to work as a waitress and go to school at night. But I’m almost finished with law school now. And even though it took a lot of suffering to get here, I finally have the life that I imagined as a young girl.(Bogotá, Colombia)


(2/3) I was the youngest one in the camp. I felt very happy at first. I didn’t have to cook anymore. I was having new experiences. The guerrillas taught me rules. They taught me how to use weapons. They told me that we were fighting for the poor. All of it sounded very good. But then basic training began and it was very difficult. I started to miss my family. My father’s birthday came around, and I could not stop thinking about him. They sent me to another camp because my father kept searching for me. I spent eight years with the guerillas. We lived in the mountains. I slept on the ground. I didn’t get a salary. The fighting was continuous. The army would bomb us day and night. And I didn’t speak to my family for a full seven years. I always wondered what happened to them. Finally it got to be too much, and I decided to desert. (Bogotá, Colombia)




(1/3) I knew nothing about the guerrillas before I joined them. The only thing I knew was that they lived better than me. I grew up on a farm in a rural area. We were very poor. My mother abandoned our family so I had to take care of my younger siblings. My father was a good man, but he didn’t give me any liberties. He didn’t let me go to town. He didn’t let me go to school. He didn’t let me have a boyfriend. I wanted freedom, and the guerrillas seemed like my only way out. They used to drive by our farm in their jeeps. They seemed powerful. Even the women wore camouflage. One day the guerrillas stopped by our farm to buy some chickens, and I told them I wanted to join. I was only thirteen years old. They told me to meet them at a certain spot at 5 AM the next morning. I didn’t even say ‘goodbye’ to my father. They told me that I was never allowed to speak to my family again. (Bogotá, Colombia)


We’ve been at war in this country for over fifty years. There have been hundreds of thousands of deaths and millions of victims. So a lot of people don’t like the work that I do. I manage a reintegration program for ex-combatants. I’m trying to take away the main tool of war human beings. We can’t punish everyone who fought against us. We can’t jail them all. That will only divide us further. So we must find a way to reconcile with the 60,000 ex-combatants that live among us. We must educate them. We must find them jobs. If we reject and stigmatize them, we will always be at war. Reconciliation is a very hard task. There are a lot of open wounds in this country. People don’t want to forgive. Ex-combatants are often viewed as monsters. My job is to show that their blood is like ours. If we can’t break the idea of ‘good’ and ‘evil,’ we will always be divided. Reconciliation is the only way to change the course of our history. (Bogotá, Colombia)




I’m unemployed right now, but it’s my own decision. I’m trying to rethink my life. I’ve been a biology teacher for the past seven years. I’d wake up at 5:30 AM every day and wouldn’t get home until after 5 PM. Then I’d spend the evening preparing lessons or grading exams. Teaching was beautiful but I didn’t like the philosophy of the school. The focus was on being as productive as possible. The kids were stressed. They had no time to be children. I just didn’t feel that life should be like that. It can’t always be about growing, growing, growing. There have to be cycles. So I’m trying to take a step back. I’m trying to enrich myself without having an exact objective. I’m reading, and doing yoga, and participating in a dance group. But it’s been hard to appreciate the moment. I’ve always felt such a pressure to work. And when I’m not producing, it’s hard to escape the feeling that I’m doing something wrong. (Bogotá, Colombia)




My father never valued my mother. She did everything for him. She worked all day, then she came home to cook dinner. My father just came home to sleep. She’d bring him his food on a tray. Everything had to be perfect: right colors, right napkins, everything. But he’d still call her names. He’d get drunk and yell at her for nothing. My mother was submissive and accepted it all. She’d even get mad at me if I tried to intervene. Eventually my father had an affair with our neighbor. And two years ago he left our home to be with her. Recently I spoke to him on the phone. He sounded depressed. He’d just broken up with the woman. He told me that he’d given her everything, but she still left him. He’d cooked for her, he’d treated her well, and he’d bought her whatever she wanted. But nothing was enough. I asked him if he realized what life was teaching him. He had no answer.(Bogotá, Colombia)


I’m really bothered by people using cocaine. I get angry when I see people doing it for fun. So many horrible things have happened in my country just so people can have ‘fun.’ Cocaine was the motor behind the war in Colombia. It financed the drug lords, the paramilitary, and the guerillas. It paid for the bombs, and the guns, and the kidnappings. It corrupted our government. It ruined our reputation. There isn’t a family in Colombia that hasn’t been hurt. All of us lost friends and family members. And this violence was funded by people who use cocaine. Yet none of them feel responsible for what happened.(Bogotá, Colombia)




My mother abandoned me as an infant. My father left when I was seven, and a year later I began working as a maid. My earliest memories are cooking and cleaning. When I turned seventeen, I got a job on a construction site. I met a much older man there. I thought he was very handsome. And he was so nice to me. He’d bring me flowers, and apples, and oranges. If anyone was aggressive toward me, he would defend me. He made me feel whole. It was the first time that I’d ever felt truly happy. When I found out I was pregnant, I was so excited to tell him. I thought I would finally have a family. He’d always told me that he wanted to be with me. But when I gave him the news, he said: ‘I have a wife and children. We can never be together.’ Even now it hurts to remember. It hurt me more than not having parents.(Medellín, Colombia)




My sister was murdered when I was twelve years old. Her husband killed her because of jealousy. After that it was just me and my mom. I stopped studying. I became the black sheep of the family. I left the house and went my own way. There was a gang in the neighborhood. They gave me a place to live. They gave me work. They gave me marijuana and cocaine. I was always high. My job was tocollect protection money from local businesses. There were five of us who made the rounds. When I turned fourteen they told me I was ready to ‘test the knife.’ There was a shopkeeper named Maria. Her husband was a pain in the ass. He would always scream at us and call us sons of bitches. So we stabbed him over and over. There was blood everywhere. I felt like throwing up. Afterwards I felt empty inside. So I just did more drugs. And the way I looked at it—if my sister got killed, why shouldn’t other people die? At least that’s how I always justified it to myself. (Bogotá, Colombia)




We've been dating for a year and a half. It’s been a wonderful relationship but recently it’s changed a lot. I feel like I’m the one holding it together. I’m the one that calls. I’m the one that texts. We used to talk every day, but now she’s not even trying. Maybe she just feels smothered. Maybe she’s testing to see if I’ll stick around. I just don’t know. I can’t decipher what she wants. When I ask her directly, her answers are never precise. She keeps saying: ‘I’ll think about it.’ So I keep giving her one last try—over and over again. I just want to get things back to the way they used to be. (Bogotá, Colombia)




I gave the last nine years of my life to my job. It was all I did. My work made me feel ‘needed.’ I was an accountant and I could do things that nobody else could do. My bosses kept telling me how important I was to the company. But one day they asked me to ‘touch up’ some numbers to make them look better. And I realized I was giving them way more of my time than they deserved—so I quit. The first thing I did was rest. The second thing I did was repair the relationships that I’d been neglecting. I reached out to old friends. I arranged to be with them physically, and not just over texts or Facebook. At first I was nervous because I didn’t know what we’d talk about. It had been so long. But it was easy. One of them had just gotten a scholarship. Another was becoming a father. So much had happened in their lives that I had missed. It felt so good to reconnect. For nine years I’d been focusing on numbers. It wasn’t real. Now I’m connecting with people again, and I feel like my feet are back on the ground. (Bogotá, Colombia)


I didn’t even really like animals. But my daughter said she wanted a pet. So I brought home this kitten, and told my daughter: ‘It’s your responsibility. I’m not going to get involved.’ But now the kitten loves me more than the girl. I call him JJ. He’s always the first one to greet me when I come home. When I leave for work, he lays on my flip-flops by the door. He always wants to be with me. Right now we’re coming back from a trip to the store. My daughter is a little jealous. She’s always trying to steal him from me. (Medellín, Colombia)




It was a slip. The first thing I thought about was an abortion. I was only fifteen at the time. But after getting my ear chewed off, and all of the bitching, and all of the scolding, I decided to take responsibility. My daughter is three now. I’ve had to give up so much. I can’t go to university. I can’t go out, or go on trips. Now my life is nothing but a routine. I’m a slave to paying rent. I work seven days a week at a casino for minimum wage. I have to support my grandmother and sisters. My mother left the house in December to live with a man. I never talk about any of this. I keep to myself because nobody cares. Even if I’m happy—nobody cares. I only worry about my daughter’s happiness. I only think about her future. I have hope for her. But not for me. (Medellín, Colombia)


There was a lot of sickness in my house. My wife has heart problems and is connected to oxygen. I was drinking a lot. Everyone kept to themselves and stayed in their rooms. But one day I had a prophecy in the church that I would have a very big happiness. The prophecy said that someone was going to come and fill all the voids of my home. A few weeks later my daughter was pregnant. And here he is! He’s consumed my entire life. I get to watch him every afternoon. I want him to see me as the happy grandpa who never says ‘no.’ I don’t even drink anymore. He’s brought our entire family together. Recently my wife told me: ‘I can tell you are so happy. Your eyes are always sparkling now.’ (Medellín, Colombia)




I’m a single father. I’ve had my son since he was two. His mother and I used to consume a lot of drugs, but I did a full stop when he was born. He saved my life in a lot of ways. But his mother never got her life together. She’ll show up sporadically but then disappear for months at a time. I try to fill in the holes with as much love as possible, but I know it bothers him. He’s just not at an age where he can fully express his feelings. I try to protect him from all the volatility of my own life. I broke up with my girlfriend yesterday. And I’m sitting here wondering how I’m going to explain it to him. I actually waited a long time before introducing them because I didn’t want her to be another absence in his life. But now it didn’t work out. And I’ve got to figure out how to break that down for him.(Bogotá, Colombia)




I want to be an archeologist. That’s a person who explores the desert and looks for dinosaur eggs and Egyptians. I’ve been thinking a lot about it. I’m already watching Jurassic Park and collecting dinosaur stickers. And once I found a piece of coral in the shape of a heart.(Bogotá, Colombia)




I met him at the company where we worked. We went out dancing. He was kind to me. Things started changing after we got married. I’d rush home from work so I could cook for the whole family. But if the food wasn’t ready on time, he’d get upset. One day his mistress came to the door to tell me about their affair. I was pregnant at the time. He came back from work and found her in the house, and he hit me so hard that he broke my face. I still have the scars. The abuse got worse and worse. I stayed for a long time. At first I thought marriages were supposed to be like that. And by the time I learned otherwise, he wouldn’t let me go. He’d lock me in the house. He’d threaten me by putting a gun to our son’s head. When I finally got a restraining order, I was in such bad shape that I checked into a mental institution. Now I’m alone and it’s the happiest time of my life. I’m able to work. I can eat whatever I want. I can go out whenever I want. Even sitting here and smoking a cigarette is a joy for me.(Bogotá, Colombia)




I’ve been sitting here for four hours thinking about what I should do. I don’t want to go home. I fucked up again. I’ve been a drug addict my whole life. But I was clean for three months. I got a job at a call center. I was doing well. Then as soon as I got my paycheck, I went out drinking with some coworkers. Just a normal thing. But then I tried a little coke, went on a binge, and lost my job. Same story as always. And now I don’t want to go home. I live with my mother. She’s never lost faith in me. My brother was killed in the army so I’m her only son. She doesn’t deserve this. She was so happy that I had a job. She’d convinced herself that things were finally going to be OK. And I’ve got to go home and tell her what happened. And I don’t want to do it. She’s not even going to be mad. She’ll just be so hurt. Then she’ll ask me if I’ve eaten. (Bogotá, Colombia)




I was the best student in my high school. I put so much pressure on myself. I never failed a class. But I got sick during 10th grade and I started to fall behind. That’s when the panic attacks began. One day the teacher handed me my grade report, and I couldn’t breathe. My heart was beating very fast. I felt disconnected. I saw people trying to talk to me but I couldn’t hear them. Eventually I passed out and woke up in the infirmary. The attacks were almost daily after that. Last year I started college. And I can’t be the best student here no matter how hard I try. Everyone is so talented. My panic attacks got so bad that I had to cancel my first semester. But now I’m working on acknowledging my anxiety. I used to try to hide it. I would log off social media. I wouldn’t answer calls. I thought that if nobody knew, it didn’t exist. But the more I talk about my problem, the more I realize that other people experience similar things. So I’m trying to express it more. I had a great teacher who told me: ‘Instead of letting anxiety keep you from doing your art, let it be the thing that motivates your art.’ (Bogotá, Colombia)




I do yoga at the senior center. But it’s not advanced enough for me. I can do the cat, the dog, the bridge, the snake… all of it. My class is filled with younger people in their sixties and seventies. They are always complaining: ‘My hip! My diabetes!’ But you’ll never hear a word out of me. (Medellín, Colombia)




We’re doing great now. But this time last year we found a tumor on her spine and lungs. She seemed like a perfectly healthy child just like now. But one day she had a very bad episode of pneumonia. And the doctors told us it was cancer. But Carolina was so brave the entire time. She made us so proud. She wasn’t afraid of the doctors. She stuck out her arm when it was time for treatment. She was even brave during the surgery. It was over before Carolina even realized—wasn’t it? But those were the longest four hours of Mommy’s life. (Montevideo, Uruguay)


I didn’t find out that I liked teaching until I was 45 years old. I was working as a graphic designer, and I volunteered to teach a group of kids from a poor region. It was part of a special program aimed at teenagers who’d dropped out of school. At first I was scared. Many of them had behavior problems. Some of them were addicted to drugs. One of them even brought a knife to class. But I discovered that I could really connect with them. Sometimes I could even reach kids that refused to talk to psychologists. I learned that I could transform someone’s life just by listening. The program only lasted six months, but it gave me such sense of satisfaction. I’ve been training for the last two years to become a real teacher. My test results just arrived and I got assigned to the school I wanted. I’m going to teach Portuguese to elementary school students.(Montevideo, Uruguay)




I was thirteen when my mother started to change. My parents had just gotten divorced. My mother should have been sad but she kept going out to dance. Sometimes she’d stay out all night. She became very talkative and had a hard time concentrating. She’d say that she wanted to sell everything and travel the world. Then she got depressed. She stayed in her room. She gained a lot of weight. I actually preferred the depression, because at least then she’d stay at home. The manic phases got worse and worse. They are so bad now that she has to go to the clinic. Then the depression will come again and she can’t stop crying. Last October she returned to her normal self. It lasted about a week. I didn’t leave her side. We took walks every day. I always tell her that she gave us the best childhood. She was always there for us. She made crafts with us. She taught me how to cook. She would even throw birthday parties for my toys. I still think I’m very lucky. I hate seeing her like this, but she’s still the best mom in the world.(Montevideo, Uruguay)




I grew up in Spain right after the civil war. When I was eleven I was sent to a Catholic boarding school. They fed me and sheltered me. But they only taught me religion. They were training me to be a priest. I was taught to fear God. I was taught to fear the outside world. I was taught to fear everything. I left the grounds one day when I was twenty-eight. I went to a barbershop and got my hair cut by a French woman. I had never really spoken to a woman before. She told me I was cute. That same day I bought a newspaper. It was the first time I’d ever bought something with my own money. When I returned to the school, I was changed. I had discovered freedom. I began to realize their lies and so I wasn’t useful to them anymore. A few months later I met a woman in church and fell in love. We got married and had three children. I left all of it behind, except for the fear. Sometimes I still feel very afraid for no reason. That will always be a part of me. (Montevideo, Uruguay)




I have Asperger’s, but I wasn’t diagnosed for a long time. I was a polite child. I found it easy to concentrate at school. I had some problems socializing but that’s pretty normal for children. But my problem is that I’m too transparent. I kept trying to fix people. I could never just stand aside and let things be. I kept telling people what was wrong with their lives. I thought I was helping them. I just wanted everything to be in order. But I accidentally stirred up so much negativity. Now I’m sometimes afraid to talk to people. I don’t want to cause any problems. There’s no danger in what I just said is there? (Montevideo, Uruguay)




In twenty minutes I lost what I had been building for forty years. It happened while I was at work. My mother tried to turn on the stove and it caught fire. I lost everything. All my possessions and photographs were destroyed. Everything seemed hopeless. I didn’t sleep for many nights after it happened. But so many people came to help me. My friends let me live with them for months. My neighbors helped me clean the site and we began to rebuild. People were giving me extra materials. Twenty-five volunteers showed up from the local construction union. The experience changed me. I see people differently now. I thought that the world was full of people asking for things that they didn’t need. So I just focused on taking care of myself. As soon as my house is finished, I’m doing whatever I can to help people. (Montevideo, Uruguay)




She keeps bringing home animals. I try to tell her that our house is too small for more pets. She keeps saying, ‘Our house is small but our hearts are big.’ She brings them home while I’m working. Then by the time I get home, the kids have already given them names, and there’s nothing I can do. It started with one bird. But then the bird got ‘lonely.’ So now we have four birds. And eleven hamsters. And rabbits. And fish. Now she's started texting me pictures of dogs that don’t have a home. It’s only a matter of time. (Montevideo, Uruguay)


I downsized my life to one large suitcase, and I’ve been traveling non-stop for seven years. Everyone’s happy. My ex-wife got the real estate. And I got my peace.(Montevideo, Uruguay)




(2/2) It’s very difficult to talk about adoption on the Internet. No matter what you say, somebody will say the opposite. We adopted Axel last January. He had spent three years in the orphanage. The staff loved him and were desperate to find him a family. We were the only ones on the list for an older child. We knew it was going to be difficult. I had read a lot of literature on the difficulties of overcoming early neglect. And we’re making progress. We’re teaching him that our home is a permanent home. We are learning that touch is a good thing. We are learning that hugs can make you feel better. And I’m learning to not put so much pressure on myself. At first we felt so much pressure to love him. It would hurt me when he didn’t want to be hugged. I wanted to immediately love him as much as our biological son. And I felt guilty because it wasn’t happening right away. But then I stopped pressuring myself. My husband and I decided to focus on basics. We focused on providing food, shelter, and education. And once we stopped pressuring ourselves to feel a certain way, we discovered that we already loved him quite a bit. It’s a rollercoaster. But I feel like we’re heading up. Adopting an older child is difficult, but every child is difficult. My biological child was difficult. Only this time, after several months, I’m sleeping through the night, my boobs don’t hurt, and I don’t smell like diapers. So I feel like I should be doing a victory dance.(Santiago, Chile)




One thing that makes me most proud of Humans of New York is the warmth of the comment section. There are exceptions of course, but generally the responses to each story are thoughtful and encouraging. I joke that Humans of New York is followed by the nicest 25 million people on the Internet. Often the comment section will takes on a life and a narrative of it's own. During my visit to Santiago, I received an email from a woman named Victoria (aka Sofia) who shared a story about how her life was changed by the support of the HONY community. Very proud to pass it along: - We’d been trying to adopt for several years. We didn’t want an infant. The waiting list was too long. Plus we had one child already, so we’d already been through the experience of having a baby. We wanted other couples to have that opportunity. So we decided to adopt an older child. But everything went wrong. Our application was invalidated after three years because my husband got a job in Ecuador. When we tried to start over, the government went on strike. Then we lost all our possessions in a storage facility fire. So I was about to give up. I couldn’t do it anymore. The process was stressing me out so much that it was affecting my biological child. Then right when I was about to give up, I saw a Humans of New York post about a man who’d grown up in a group home. I thought: ‘He could have been my child.’ I wrote about my difficulties in the comment section, and hundreds of people responded. Everyone told me not to give up. My phone was buzzing all day. The ones that touched me most were the stories from adopted children. It gave me the strength to go on. (Santiago, Chile)




(3/3) The doctors discovered a tumor on Mom’s spine in 2007. She spent four years being really sick. First she couldn’t walk. Then she couldn’t move her arms, or her hands. When she died she could only move her head. My father took care of her. I don’t think there was emotion involved. I think he was just concerned about doing the correct thing. He’d openly say: ‘I hate this so much.’ But he did it. Mom died three years ago. When she realized she didn’t have much time, she really encouraged me to get closer to my siblings. She also encouraged me to travel. She’d say: ‘Go explore. Forget about me. You’re different. I want you to find people like you.’ She was always so worried about me being alone. And sometimes I do feel alone now that she’s gone. I don’t know who to call when I accomplish something. I miss her so much. But I always try to be like her. My whole life I’ve tried to be like her. I can be shy. I can isolate myself. Sometimes I remind myself of my father. But I have always tried to be my mother. (Santiago, Chile)




(2/3) One day I found a box of old love letters that my dad had written to my mom. They were romantic letters. They said nice things. I was surprised because I’d never seen him say those things. All of that had disappeared before I was born. My father had never told me anything about himself. Everything I know about him, I learned from my mom. She told me that the romance had been an act. She told me that she later realized he was a very cold man. But Mom always told me that we shouldn’t blame him. She said he had a very rough childhood. His father abandoned the family when he was very young. His mother married another man, and sent him to live with an uncle. She raised an entirely new family and left my father behind. He had a very lonely childhood. So my mother always told me: ‘You must not blame your father.’ She told me that always. Especially after she got sick.(Santiago, Chile)




(1/3) In every sense she was the perfect mom. She always tried to encourage me when I was younger. I was really shy, so she always worried about me being alone. She would ask things like: ‘Have you met anyone at school?’ or ‘Does anyone like the same things you do?’ She always knew when something was wrong. I never had to tell her anything. But Dad was the opposite. He ignored me. He never did anything wrong. He wasn’t an alcoholic. He wasn’t violent. He was just nothing—like a chair or a piece of furniture. His only idea of fatherhood was going to work. He never reacted to anything in my life. Not the good things, or the bad things. He didn’t react to me staying out late. He didn’t react when I experimented with drugs and alcohol. I made my mom very sad by trying to get my dad’s attention. A few years ago I got hit by a car. When I woke up from my coma, I called home to tell my parents what happened. My father answered the phone. I told him everything. All he said was: ‘Your mother is asleep right now. You can call her tomorrow.’ That hurt me worse than being hit by the car. (Santiago, Chile)




The older my daughters get, the more indifferent they become towards me. They don’t call me. They don’t come see me. They don’t do anything unless I try. I left the house when the oldest was six. I found a new partner. Their mother was very angry so she restricted my visits. Now they are teenagers and they seem so distant from me. I have nobody in my life right now. I have nobody to share things with, so I’d really like a relationship with them. But nothing seems to work. I pick them up from school. I speak to them every day. I try to take them to my apartment a couple times each week. But even if they are physically with me, it’s like they aren’t there. They don’t even say ‘I love you.’ It hurts. I guess they are still angry that I left. Maybe one day they will have their own relationships. And if they fail, they’ll learn that everything can’t be perfect. (Santiago, Chile)




He gets emotional when he drinks. He starts crying every time an animal dies on the nature shows." I can't help it. I'm a Pisces." (Santiago, Chile)


I came out at the age of twenty. I was trying to understand myself. It was a discovery time. I was thin and flexible. I loved to dance. I started performing in a trans show at a gay club. I wore high heels and sang Janet Jackson songs. It was wonderful. I did my own choreography. My friend Carlos designed my costumes. Carlos didn’t charge me money. He wanted me to be a success. We weren’t lovers or anything. He was more like an older brother. He was huge, and coarse, and a little bit of a bully. One night I was waiting backstage and Carlos came running into the green room. He told me that there was a fire and we needed to leave. He had been standing by the exit when the fire broke out, but he still came back to get me. We ran down a dark hallway to the emergency exit. The hallway was filled with smoke and there was a crowd of people pressed against the door. They couldn’t get it open. It was chained from the outside. Carlos lifted me up on top of the crowd, and people began passing me forward. It was completely dark. I held Carlos’s hand for as long as possible. Someone broke a window and I got pulled into the street. I was completely naked because so many people had been grabbing my clothes. When I finally turned around, I saw the whole club engulfed in flames. Over twenty people died that night. Carlos was one of them. (Valparaíso, Chile)




Our first house was destroyed by an earthquake in 1970. We barely made it out alive. We lost everything. I was only nineteen. He was twenty-two. We had two young babies and a third one on the way. When we found this place, it was just an abandoned lot. We built our house from the ground up. We lived in a tent and tried to save on everything. We carried wood and stones up the hill by ourselves. We collected free sand from far away. We barely slept. It took us a year to build. And we’ve been adding to it ever since. (Valparaíso, Chile)


The only time my mother spoke to us was when she was drunk. And she’d tell us we were unwanted. She convinced me to drink with her when I was ten. She told me that it would make me feel better. I started smoking crack when I was twelve. I never learned to read or write. I lost my entire childhood. My friends and I would break into cars, steal whatever we could, and use the money to buy more. It made me feel good and I wanted to feel good all the time. And nobody ever tried to stop me.(Santiago, Chile)


My mother was the boss of the whole family. Everyone asked for her opinion on everything. She built this business from the ground up. She made all the decisions, she set the budget, and she ordered our supplies. I just helped with simple tasks like collecting money. She passed away six years ago and left the entire business to me. I was lost. I was so nervous and shy. I’d never shown any initiative. I had no idea what to do. But I figured it out. I learned that I could be assertive and make decisions. I’ve completely remodeled the place. And the business is growing. We only had two employees when my mother passed away. Now I have twelve. (Santiago, Chile)




Being a grandfather is quite different. It’s much looser than being a parent. I don’t have to always worry about providing patterns of behavior. I just get to give her little kisses. I was allowed to borrow her this morning so we are walking through the park. It’s our personal pastime. She likes to look at the dogs and birds. Today we saw some blackbirds which was quite exciting. (Santiago, Chile)




One night I was talking with my wife about how perfect our life was. It was twenty-five years ago. We had four children. We’d just saved enough money to buy a new house. We felt so lucky. I remember she said: ‘What if God takes something from us?’ The next day I came home from work and found my wife screaming. She was holding our oldest son. He’d stuck his hand in the washing machine andelectrocuted himself. We couldn’t revive him. We rushed to the hospital but the doctors said there was nothing they could do. I begged them to try. My friends from the church came and we all started to pray. And the doctors were able to bring him back to life. He became a case study. Today he’s 29. He has learning problems. He can’t read or write. But he has a job as a security guard. He enjoys his life. And to this day, I believe in miracles. (Valparaíso, Chile)




I had to leave Venezuela. I’ve lived there my entire life. My parents are buried there. But five months ago I had to leave. It just got too dangerous. One day I was attacked while walking home from the supermarket, and I woke up on the ground. I’ve had guns pulled on me several times. I just couldn’t do it anymore. I’m trying to start a new life but it’s impossible to find a job. I’ve applied to about sixty shops so far but nobody will give me a chance. They think I’m too old. I tell them to try me for just a few days, but they won’t. I did find one part time job cleaning toilets and picking up trash. These are things I’ve never done in my life. But right now I can’t afford to be picky.(Santiago, Chile)




When my business started doing well, I made the mistake of hiring my friends. Now I have no business and no friends.(Santiago, Chile)




He fell in love with me because I used to have a huge ass." (Santiago, Chile)




I'm his only daughter. And this is his only grandson." (Santiago, Chile)


I didn’t want to take the pill anymore and I thought I could control things on my own. That was a mistake. I started to cry when I found out I was pregnant. I was terrified by the thought of the baby being 100% dependent on me. What if I wanted to travel? Or go to graduate school? Or just get the fuck away and not talk to anyone? At first I wanted to get an abortion. I even called the hotline but I never went through with it. Now my son is my life. I’ve totally abandoned myself. I broke up with the father after a year. He has a new girlfriend now. He gets to have his life, and see our son whenever he chooses. He gets to go out. He gets to go through an emo phase and decide not to work. It’s unfair. He can play with our son then go back to his life whenever he wants. I get left with the hard part. My life is my son now. And I love him, so that’s a wonderful thing. But it’s a terrible thing too.(Santiago, Chile)




If I did something wrong, it was out of ignorance. Maybe I was too strict with him. I was in the army for twenty-seven years so that’s all I knew. He’s really pulled away lately. He doesn’t go to church. He doesn’t care about school. He thinks he knows everything and that we don’t understand anything about his life. So he always locks himself in his room. Recently he told me that he hated me. And I lost my temper and told him that he was no longer my son. Both of us apologized but things are still difficult. I think he’s just very uncomfortable with life. Maybe he feels like the black sheep of the family. My wife and I are professors and both his sisters are doing well. I just don’t know what to do. I’m trying to pull back now and be more lenient. I punish him less. I stopped taking away his phone when he doesn’t do his schoolwork. I don’t want him to rebel any more, but when I back off, it’s hard to be strict again and provide structure. So I just don’t know. I’m reading books to figure out how to reach him. I want him to understand that it doesn’t matter to me if he’s successful in a professional way. I just want him to have some sort of purpose. (Santiago, Chile)




I’m going to tell you a family secret. We hated each other in college. We were in the same history class. We argued over everything. I’d make a point in class, and she would argue the exact opposite. At the end of the year, our professor forced us to work together on our thesis project. Both of us asked him if we could choose different partners, but he refused. We made that professor the godfather of our children.(Santiago, Chile)




My mother was cold, harsh, and demanding. But she was the best cook ever!(Santiago, Chile)




It's been over a year since my divorce. I'd been married for fifteen years. I was pretty beaten down. Some days I would feel so lonely that I couldn’t even sleep. A friend of mine from work told me to download a dating app. I tried for a long time but nobody was answering me. It was making me feel worse. I wanted to delete it but my friend convinced me to keep trying. Then on January 28th, I saw her picture and gave her a ‘heart.’ And she sent me a message. I said: ‘Wow, this is really happening.’ It's like she's an angel who came from heaven to bring light to my life. I love my chocolate bonbon. (São Paulo, Brazil)




If there was anyone who cared about me, God already killed them. My mother died when I was eleven. She had heart problems because of all the drugs. These two tears are for her. I can’t even remember her face. I remember going to her funeral but I don’t remember her face. When I dream about her, all I hear is her voice. There’s no dialogue or anything. It’s just her voice, saying: ‘Come here, Jeff. Come here, Jeff.’ After she died, all that mattered was surviving. Nobody showed me love. Maybe things would have been different if I had parents. Maybe I’d have a place to live. Maybe I’d have accomplished something. So I don’t feel guilty for anything. Why should I? God doesn’t feel guilty for killing my mom. (2/2)(Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)




Drug dealing was delicious. I had a pistol, I had girls, I had funk. Everyone saw me as important. I helped defend the favela and maintain the rules. You couldn’t rape, you couldn’t kill, you couldn’t hit a woman without permission. Everyone knew the rules and nobody could break them. Or else you might get erased and fed to the crocodiles. I don’t have a heart. I’m cold blooded. My adrenaline goes up but that’s it. Afterwards it’s back to nothing. People feared me. People respected me. But then I got set up. One of the "higher-ups' wanted my girlfriend. So he accused me of stealing. It was all lies. He even tried to say I smoked crack. They beat me with sticks. They broke my fingers. They knocked out my teeth. They took my girl, my clothes, even my dog. And now I live on the streets. I’ve got nothing left. I used to get everything for free. Now if I ask for food, I’ll get chased away. (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)


I was walking up the hill with my soccer ball one night and the police and drug dealers started to shoot at each other. I jumped over the wall and ran all the way home. I told my mom what happened, and she got so mad at me. I told her that I was just playing soccer and I didn’t do anything wrong. Then she started to cry. And I started to cry. And then we went to the church and prayed for a very long time. (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)




My father and his cousin created the first drug dealing territory in this favela back in the 60’s. It was a very violent place back then. Before my father came along—anyone with a weapon had absolute power. There was no law. There was no police to turn to. There were many homicides, burglaries, and rapes. My father played an important role. It was a cruel role, but it was important. He had to clean up the favela. The criminals weren’t just going to leave. They had to be erased. And my father did that job. He was a tiny man. He dressed well. He was educated, and polite, and humble. To many people he wasn’t a good person. But he was a righteous person. I didn’t follow in my father’s footsteps. I became a photographer and an activist. But I don’t see my father as a bad man. He brought rules to this place. And today’s drug traffickers enforce those same rules. This favela is one of the safest places in the city. Stealing is not allowed here. You can’t rape. You can’t hit a woman. Yes, there is violence. Because the police are always fighting the drug traffickers. But if the drug traffickers were gone tomorrow, the favela would be a far more dangerous place. (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)




Rio was the biggest slave port in world history. Two million slaves arrived in this city—five times more than the entire American South. Favelas were built because the government didn’t want to provide basic services to the descendants of slaves. So these descendants were forced to build their own communities. Favelas are unregulated. They’re poorly serviced. But don’t call them ‘slums.’ That’s a lazy translation and it’s unfair to the people who live here. The word ‘slum’ implies that all favelas are the same. The word ‘slum’ ignores 120 years of improvement that these residents have made to their communities. And the word ‘slum’ makes it easier to ignore these communities. That's exactly what the government wants. Because if favelas aren’t viewed as real neighborhoods, then their residents don't deserve real services. So please don’t use the word ‘slum.’ Because it only helps to encourage that narrative.(Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)


I didn’t enjoy life very much because I was always sacrificing for the future. My whole life was about studying and working. I worked so many jobs. I went to college. I got my MBA. I didn’t travel very much. I didn’t get married. I didn’t have kids. All I wanted to do was feel secure. But I’ve had bad health problems my entire life. So I haven’t been able to save. And two weeks ago I lost my job. The job market is brutal when you’re my age. People don’t think you can learn new things. I can’t even get work as a clerk because they think I’m overqualified. I have no money now. I can barely afford food and transportation. I’ve spent my whole life sacrificing—just to one day feel secure. But it seems like it was all for nothing. And I have no idea what to do. (São Paulo, Brazil)




After twenty years of marriage, I caught my husband cheating and had to leave him. But honestly, I wish I’d gotten my divorce much sooner. For so long I’d been denying my right to be an individual. The family had become so much more important than my dreams. I had small joys back then: getting a brand new car, having our 20th anniversary, when my son got into college. But now the intensity is so much greater. I’m doing all the things I love to do. I studied nutrition and got a job at the hospital. I buy whatever I want. I watch cartoons. I never miss a Shrek movie. I go to the orchestra at least once a month. And right now I’m coming back from a class on finance. I’m going to invest in the stock market and get a house by the beach. (São Paulo, Brazil)


I grew up in a rural area. I came to the city when I was fourteen. I wanted to expand my horizons. All I had was a suitcase and my courage. My parents tried to stop me. My mom found my first bus ticket and ripped it into pieces. But I told her that I wasn’t going to give up, and eventually my father drove me to the station. At first I worked as a maid in people’s houses. One of the people I worked for was the owner of a major newspaper, and his wife helped me go to high school. Then I went to college, where I met this handsome guy beside me. Now I run a small business selling tapioca. I’m even able to help support my parents back home. But I will admit that I’m getting restless again. I think I want to live in another country. (São Paulo, Brazil)




When I was seventeen I had my first kid. The mother was addicted to drugs. I was in a tough situation. I was raising the child on my own. And I received an invitation to help rob a truck. I thought: ‘I’ll just do this today, and then it will be over.’ I was the lookout. The police caught us while we were running away. Prison is a place that’s impossible to explain. I was there for 2.5 years before I even had a trial. I saw a guy being stabbed. I saw a guy slit his own throat with a razor. During the night I used to sit by the window, and look at the stars, and think: ‘Not even an animal likes to stay in a cage.’ All my friends forgot about me. Only my mother visited. I’ll never go back there. Right now I’m in a tough situation again. I have no job. But people at the church help me with food. And I sit here and help people park their cars. It’s only a few pennies, but I’d rather do this than steal from someone else who needs the money. (São Paulo, Brazil)


We go to the same school. I asked her out three months ago. I took her to a movie because it seemed casual, and I didn’t think she’d be expecting anything. When we left the theater, I handed her a poem that told the story of our friendship, including our trip to the movie. But the last line of the poem just said: ‘Look at me.’ When she looked up, I recited four more lines: ‘In addition to this, we are such good friends.Will you take one more step,and be my girlfriend?’(São Paulo, Brazil)




I was raised in a very strict family. My mom was like a sergeant. I married way too young. I had no life experience. I was married for twenty-five years and my late husband never let me go anywhere by myself. When he died, I had no idea how to live on my own. For fourteen years I’ve been a widow. And I’ve barely left the house. Recently I met this man on the Internet. We kept exchanging pictures. We kept talking on the phone. But I was too scared to meet. He told me: ‘Put your head up high! You are the boss of your life!’ So today I finally agreed to meet. I tried on five different outfits this morning. After I left the house, I went back once more to change my shoes. I was trembling the whole way on the bus. My stomach felt sick. When I finally saw him, it felt like there was a samba school in my heart. I was sweating. The first thing he did was get me some water. Now we’ve spent the whole day together. I feel so relaxed. I feel free. I feel like we’ve known each other for our entire lives. (Salvador, Brazil)




I’ve been working as an airline mechanic since a young age. I’m really good at it. I always pick up extra shifts. And it’s good because it’s allowed me to mature and grow. But since I work so much, it’s easy for people to think that things are going well for me. And it’s also been easy for me not to think about things. Now I’m twenty-two and I feel completely lost. I feel like I haven’t spent any time thinking about myself. I’m not good at forming relationships or talking to people. I've never wanted to seem weak because nobody likes people who are sad all the time. So I’ve become a closed-off person. Yesterday we picked groups for a class project, and nobody wanted to be in my group because I work so much. I don’t go to movies. I never even come to the park. This is the first time that I’ve been here. I don’t know I just feel so lost right now. I’m searching for something but I don’t know what it is.(São Paulo, Brazil)




He fell in love with me the first day he met me. He kept calling me princess. He said we were meant to be together because our feet were the same size. Look how embarrassed he’s getting!(São Paulo, Brazil)




You found the right guy. I carried the Olympic torch through this town. I had never even heard of a ‘torch’ before. I mean, I’m not stupid, I figured it out. But I was nervous when I saw it. I had to carry it up the hill. I’m eighty-eight. I thought I might fall down. And there were all these soldiers lined up with guns. Big guns. I thought one of them might shoot me by accident. Everyone was screaming while I ran. Nobody had ever seen anything like it. I was really scared, but I made it. And everybody started hugging me. (Lençóis, Brazil)




My husband is ninety-two and he keeps trying to make love to me. I have to swat him away. I had seventeen kids already. That’s all in the past. Whenever he gets out of the shower, he starts singing this song about a woman with long hair that he wants to kiss. He says the song is about me. I tell him: ‘Nope! Not me.’ (Lençóis, Brazil)




I grew up in a poor neighborhood on the north side of the city. There was a lot of violence. But I didn’t feel the color of my skin very much back then. Even the whites in my neighborhood were poor. We all lived in the same way and everyone seemed equal. My mother always encouraged me to study hard so I could leave the neighborhood. She worked as a maid for a rich family, and she wanted me to live a life like theirs. Eventually I graduated college, got a good job, and moved to a wealthier neighborhood in the south part of the city. I do feel safer— just like I imagined. But I never expected to feel so unwelcome. It can be hard to make friends. I've been called names. I'm made to feel the color of my skin more than I ever did growing up.(Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)




When I tried to hug her, she’d tell me it was too hot for hugs. So I learned to stop trying. We never had conversations. I thought it was normal. It was all I knew. I always thought the relationship between a mother and a child was about giving and receiving orders. But when I was ten years old, I went to a friend’s house to do a school project. At first I remember feeling sorry for him. His family was so poor. There was almost nothing in the house. But when we walked inside, his mom gave him such a big hug. And she was so happy to see him. And that was the saddest moment of my life. Because I never knew that was something you could have. My mom still doesn’t hug me. But I think we’re on the way to that. I had an asthma attack recently, and I felt so weak, and she told me I could lay my head in her lap. I can’t explain how special that made me feel. (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)




My father never learned how to talk to people. Everything had to be his way. He hit me a lot. It got really ugly sometimes. It really fucked me up, man. The whole time I thought it was my fault. Maybe it’s nobody fault. Maybe that’s all he knew. Maybe his dad did that. I don’t know. But he put me into some crazy shit. I never talked about it. I've spent my whole life pretending like I'm stronger than I am. But I’ve got to forgive him somehow. Because I deserve some peace. (Lençóis, Brazil)




He had a heart attack two years ago. He knows he shouldn’t be drinking. He knows he should be eating better. He has a new granddaughter that he wants to see grow up. But every time I catch him eating something bad, and I try to yell at him, he gets so playful and tender. He calls me his ‘beautiful brunette,’ and he tells me that I’m the love of his life. He says that he’s searching for a giant smile that’s hidden inside me. And it pisses me off because it’s patronizing. And I try so hard to be mad at him. But in the end I always crack, and I end up laughing. (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)




I first started coming out here when I was thirteen years old. I was the only girl in the beginning. It was intimidating. The guys would try to make me angry. They’d call me ‘dyke.’ They’d roll their skateboards in front of me when I was skating. So I started coming out here every day right after school, when the sun was high, and the place was empty. I got better than a lot of them. I started beating them in elimination games. So they respect me now. A lot of girls used to watch from the edges because they were too intimidated to participate. But now that I’m out here every day, some of them have the courage to try.(Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)




I’ve detached myself from everyone who tries to tell me what to do.(Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)


The one I loved most was my last son. My other children were even jealous of our attachment. When he was very young, he would hang out the window and call to me as I left for the office. And when I arrived, I would find his toys in my briefcase. We remained close as he grew older. He was the one who always called me. He was always checking on me. He was always taking me to lunch. But then one day I went to the bank, and a lot of my money was missing. He had been stealing from me. He was falsifying my signature. When I confronted him, he begged on his knees for forgiveness. Then I started getting phone calls. He owed money to people who were threatening to kill him. I went into the slums to find the loan sharks and pay off his debts. I paid them all, with interest. I used to wear nice clothes. I used to have a nice apartment. Now I’m left with nothing but my pension. And my credit is ruined. I sold all my belongings and I’m hiding from him. When I go to sleep at night, I wonder how he is doing. I wonder if he is safe. But I can’t see him. Because if I see him, I will help him again.(Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)




I want to be a doctor. All I have to do is grow up and ask the hospital if they have room for any more doctors. I’m probably going to wait until I turn twelve. The best part will be using the thing where you listen to your heart I love doing that. The worst part will be giving injections because I’m not good at hurting people.(Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)




I can get a bit insecure about my health condition. In the beginning I was worried that I wouldn’t be able to give her everything she needs. Because I can’t lift her. I can’t run after her. It takes me longer to do things, so I thought she might get frustrated with me. But none of those worries came true. She’s perfectly fine with our reality. She’s very patient. When we get out of the car, she knows that the wheelchair goes first, then Daddy, then Mommy, then Olga. She’s very happy sitting on my lap. And she loves to lie in bed with us. She even tries to help me. In the house I don’t use my wheelchair because I can walk while holding onto my husband’s shoulders. Olga saw us doing this recently, and she came up behind me and tried to help by pushing my legs. (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)




I met my wife when I was seventeen. I didn’t want to tell her about my schizophrenia. At the time, she liked another guy who had no issues and I didn’t want to ruin my chances. I hid the disease for a long time after we married. I would always find explanations for my strange behavior. I’d make up stories to explain my violent outbursts at work. But it got to be too much. By the time I admitted my disease, it was too late. She got a restraining order a year ago. I had an outburst and I hit her. She has forgiven me for the sake of our children, but they don’t live with me anymore. I’m on five strong medications now. I still have some difficulty controlling the pace of my thoughts. Some thoughts will begin before others end. It’s like my mind is divided. It can be tough to keep both feet in reality. But I don’t want any more problems. I’ve detached myself from everyone. I don’t speak at work. I spend my time alone. It’s my only way to live a normal life. (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)


I’m not going to teach him to sell candies. He’s just out here until it’s time for school. My mom brought me out here as a child. I had nine brothers and sisters. All of us had to sell candies on the street. I started when I was five years old. I never got an education. I’m not able to read very well. This is really all I know. Some people put me down. One lady got mad at me recently and told me that she’d never buy anything from me, and that a supermarket near her house was hiring. I got really depressed. It was hard to put my head up after that. But there are also people out here who support me. I have some friends who walk by and talk to me every day. My friends from the bank told me, ‘Don’t worry about that lady. She doesn’t know you. You’re a great person.’(Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)




We met later in life. We’re trying to have a kid but I’m not that young anymore. We’ve been trying for years now. Our families are beginning to really pressure us. I’m sure it’s my problem, not his. I’m starting to accept the idea. I’ve been thinking a lot about adoption lately. If I can have a small human being under my protection—that’s enough. I truly believe that a mother is the person who raises a child. So I don’t mind saying, ‘I can’t have children.’ At least then people stop asking about it.(Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)


Just trying to raise a girl in a sexist world." (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)




I hated my father for a long time. He was an alcoholic. He was abusive. And he abandoned our family when I was ten years old. My mother had to support seven children on her own. She worked as a housekeeper. My father remarried and became wealthy, but he never gave us a penny. Sometimes we went without food. But we survived. All of my brothers are grown and healthy. My father died recently, and in his final weeks he asked all seven of his sons to come visit him. Only two of us went. The rest were too angry. We mainly just talked about soccer and other small things. He never apologized for what he did. He still wasn’t the kind of person who could put his feelings into the world. But he cried the entire time. I had viewed him as a block of ice for so long. But he seemed human in that moment. He looked so vulnerable lying in his hospital bed. And at that moment I forgave him. Even if he didn’t ask me to. (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)




I got pregnant when I was twenty-two. It wasn’t planned. The father and I weren’t even in a relationship. But I thought I could handle it on my own. I felt like a modern woman. I was in law school. I wanted to be a diplomat. But oh man, it was hard. I wasn’t emotionally prepared to deal with it. Society doesn’t treat the child of an unwed mother like a blessing. When you’re married and pregnant, people come up and ask all kinds of questions: ‘Is it a boy? Is it a girl? How are you feeling?’ But that doesn’t happen when you’re single. People saw me getting fatter, but everyone avoided the subject. Instead they asked each other: ‘What happened? Do you know anything?’ I felt invisible. I dropped out of law school because I felt so ashamed. Thankfully a few close friends carried me through. My daughter is eighteen now. Everything turned out fine. But I wish I could have enjoyed my pregnancy more.(Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)


Today in microfashion(Rio de Janeiro, Brazil)




We’re taking a walk in the park to talk things through. We broke up a couple days ago. I feel like she’s too possessive sometimes. We were at a party, she felt jealous, we started arguing, and I decided that I needed some time to breathe. But I only lasted a couple days. I started to think about a lot of things. And I balanced all the good and the bad. We have our issues. But she takes care of our home. She takes care of my health. When I was in the hospital, she sat on the floor all night by my bed. And she keeps me from falling into my old habits. When I’m with her, it’s all about family. (São Paulo, Brazil)


People who see us from the outside think that our greatest struggle is the disability. It’s not. Our greatest struggle is that we’d fallen out of love with each other. I lost a lot of my independence when Tatiana was born. I fell into a depression. He was working a lot. We grew distant. I didn’t think I could ever love him again. Two years ago I prayed one night, and said: ‘God, you’ve done so much. Please grant me one more miracle and make me love him again.’ The first change came from me. He’s always been the easygoing one, so I had to change first. I started trusting more. I tried to be more forgiving and understanding. I started to cook for him and organize things around the house. And he started spending more time at home. We started enjoying each other’s company. We talked about things other than diseases. And we started going out together just like this. It was like I suddenly met a friend, who became my best friend, who became my love. And our life started over again. (São Paulo, Brazil)




She has autonomy. She has a strong will. But she can’t move. So in many ways her life is my life. It’s bigger than me, it controls me, and it makes me fight like never before. We spend so much time together that she’s a part of me. She knows how important she is to me. She had childhood cancer. Her heart failed three times. And I was by her side the entire time. I never realized that I could love someone as much as this. She could never hurt me. She could never hurt anyone. We always ask her: ‘Are you angry?’, ‘Are you mad?’ And she always says ‘no.’ She laughs when I laugh. And right now I’m trying not to cry. Because she'll cry if I cry. (São Paulo, Brazil)




I want to grow up and be like my mom because I really like her. But that’s going to take such a long time. Because it took me so long to turn five. And even longer to turn six. So it must have taken her so long to grow up.(São Paulo, Brazil)




For Heloisa, every elderly person feels like a grandparent. And she loves her grandparents. So I asked her if she wanted to have her sixth birthday party at a home for the elderly. She loved the idea. So I contacted a local home and planned everything with the coordinator. We sent invitations to the family members of all the residents. I'm a photographer, so I went a few days early and took nice portraits of all the residents. On the day of the party, I printed out the photographs and brought them as gifts for their family members. We did games and activities. There was so much joy. Everyone had such big smiles. The residents were crying. Their families were crying. I was crying. I think Heloisa will remember the experience forever. Afterward, her school friends came home with us and we had an old-fashioned pajama party. (São Paulo, Brazil)




I’ve got it all figured out. Just let time go by and try not to think about very much.(São Paulo, Brazil)


I was voted the first in my pack! Everybody got one vote, except for me, because another girl decided to vote for me. I need to show up early now because I’m in charge of making sure that everyone arrives! (São Paulo, Brazil)


The cocaine made me feel important. I thought I was always right. I was fighting a lot of people. I was cheating on my wife. I felt like I had superpowers. I was hiding my addiction from everybody. Nobody knew I was using until I had a breakdown. I stayed up doing coke for three days, and became convinced that the television was speaking to me. I tried to get through the front door of the largest television station in Brazil screaming that I was Jesus. They put me in a clinic for eighteen days. That was three years ago. I don’t mind talking about it. I’m embarrassed by it, but it happened. And it caused me to get clean. It was humiliating, but it’s also the reason I’m able to sit on this bench calm, relaxed, and not thinking about drugs. (São Paulo, Brazil)


When I started being a father, I wasn’t ready. Things are great now but I struggled with substance abuse for a long time. I have three older children and I wasn’t very present with them. I’m fifty-one now and this is my last chance. So I’m trying to do my best with this one. He’s my little baby. Thankfully I’m good friends with his mother so I’m able to see him every day. But I’ve never lived with him. I don’t wake him up in the morning or help him get ready for school. I hear my other friends talking about these things and I just hate it. It makes me feel so guilty. But I’m doing my best. It’s not the best. But it’s my best. (São Paulo, Brazil)


My father left us when I was two. The last time I saw him was my fifth grade graduation. I do know he’s alive because I found him on Facebook. Apparently he drinks a lot and goes to left wing protests. I’m not bothered by it. I think it’s funny. Sometimes I hope he comes looking for me just so I can turn him away. I did find an old journal recently from my childhood. It had The Powerpuff Girls on the cover. Inside were some pages where I had been practicing cursive, and I had written things like: ‘Why don’t you call me?’ and ‘Why don’t you like me?’ So it clearly bothered me then. Even though I don’t care now, maybe it’s impacted me in a way that I’ve yet to discover.(São Paulo, Brazil)


I’ve been doing construction since I was fifteen. I like what I do and I do what I like. Every night when I’m heading home, I always look back to see what I’ve built. It gives me a great sense of joy. A few years ago I built a children’s park not far from here, and when they finally opened the gates, and all the children came running in, I started to cry.(São Paulo, Brazil)


Today in microfashion(São Paulo, Brazil)




Both of us are widowers. We met last year at a dance for seniors. He treats me so much better than my husband ever did. My husband treated me like a stray dog. He used to beat me. He’d get angry, and yell, and break things. He’d always say that I’d never meet someone else. But this man is different. He always tells me that he loves me. He always wants to be with me. He makes me feel like a princess.(São Paulo, Brazil)




He didn’t begin speaking until the age of seven. He used to hide everywhere. I’d scream for him but he wouldn’t respond to anything. Once when he was three years old, one of his uncles came into the house wearing a baseball cap to the side. He started screaming and I couldn’t calm him. I couldn’t even get him to look me in the eye. But eventually I tried pulling the cap to the front, and he fell completely silent. I brought him back to his room to calm down. And when i walked in a few minutes later, he had built an amazing castle out of playing cards. (Cordoba, Argentina)




I was raised in a non-religious family, but certain experiences in life have caused me to connect with something that I can’t explain. Those experiences are like my paintings. The more I try to describe them, the more they lose their meaning.(Buenos Aires, Argentina)




She was my first crush as a kid. We were in the same class together, and she sat by the window, so I’d always pretend that I was staring at the tree outside. But I never had the courage to talk to her. I was extremely shy. Then over the summer I went to her twelfth birthday party at a water park. She walked up to me with her entourage of friends, and said: ‘I liked you all year. But you never talked to me. And now I’m going to another school and you’re never going to see me again!’ I was so scared that I couldn’t talk. That moment was such a small thing for her she doesn’t even remember it. But I was completely traumatized. (Buenos Aires, Argentina)




I knew it would be a girl. I had a dream that I was holding a girl." (Bariloche, Argentina)


I grew up in a rural town. I was the only girl in the family. Being a girl back then represented a lot of ‘no’s.’ I wanted to study English, the answer was ‘no.’ I wanted to play guitar, the answer was ‘no.’ I wanted to date a boy, the answer was ‘no.’ I felt like there was a barrier separating me from life. The only thing my family wanted for me was to graduate high school, get married, become a teacher, and spend every Sunday with them. So I stayed. And I got pregnant at twenty-five. But my child died during birth. I felt completely drowned. I don’t even remember the passing of time. I lost an entire year of my life. But I eventually reached a moment where I knew that my only chance was to make a major change. And I finally left that town.(Rosario, Argentina)


My brother shot himself last November. He always viewed himself as my superior. He’d never come to my door when he visited. He’d always wait in the car for me to come out. He had more money, more lovers, more everything. But he was always searching for more. He was never satisfied. My brother was a character. He was a successful character, but he was a character. And that character ended up eating him. (Cordoba, Argentina)




We've gone forty years without insulting each other. There have been fights, but never insults." (Bariloche, Argentina)


He proposed to me twenty times over the past forty years, but I kept saying ‘no.’ We were doing just fine without the paper. But our kids are more conservative than us. It was the opposite of normal—we were getting pressured from below. We’re on our honeymoon now.(Bariloche, Argentina)


We met on the Internet four months ago. Both of us are divorced. It’s been forty years since I felt this way. I’m so happy, but I’m nervous too. It’s hard for me to get rid of this feeling that it won’t work out well. But I chose him because he wrote on his profile: ‘I’m an honest man. And I will do what I say.’ I’ve been disappointed a lot. Every past relationship has left a scar. Hopefully this time there will be no scar.(Rosario, Argentina)




Last December my wife lost her job, and now we’re struggling to get to the end of every month. Around the 20th, we always realize there’s no money left. Half of my paycheck goes to rent. And we’re still in debt from our wedding. We can’t afford to go out anymore. Our diets have changed. Now it seems like money is all we talk about: what bills to pay, what to keep, what to leave out. She thinks I spend on the wrong things. I think she spends on the wrong things. So we end up arguing. But I have faith we will pass this test. Both of us came from difficult backgrounds. She was adopted. My mother abandoned me when I was young. We both know what it means to struggle, and that’s why we chose to be together. I came to this city from a small town because I was looking for happiness. And I found my happiness in her. So we’re going to figure this out. (Rosario, Argentina)




I’m thirty-four and I haven’t felt real love yet. Sometimes I think: ‘Maybe it’s me. Maybe I’ll never get to that point.’ I’ve had a couple of relationships. But a woman has never really made me feel jealous. And I’ve never felt that I would do anything to be with another person. I’ve read about real love in books, and seen it in movies, but I’ve never felt it. Like in the Titanic movie they are trying so hard to be together. That is hard for me to understand. I’m not sure what that would feel like. There is one movie with Winona Ryder where she is about to join a monastery, but then she meets a gardener, and she kisses him, and suddenly she feels real love. I’m not sure what love feels like. But I'm guessing I’ll know when I feel it. Like Winona Ryder knew. (Rosario, Argentina)


It was boring in the house, so I kept asking my parents for a younger brother. Then one day, I didn’t want to take a nap, and my mom told me: ‘If you take a nap, you can have a brother in four months!’ (Cordoba, Argentina)




I water my lawn every morning and birds come to get worms out of the wet ground. If I ever miss a day, the ground will be too hard, and the birds will sit in the yard and call out because their babies are hungry. That’s how I’ve felt my whole life. Like a bird calling out for food. Thirty years ago I went on strike in this same square. We weren’t getting paychecks. There was no money for bills or food. At the time my sons were one, eight, and nine. So we decided to go camping. I’d go fishing on the lake every night and catch two trout. That was enough to feed the four of us. We did it out of necessity but it was beautiful. My sons are in their thirties now. All of them have flown away. But they remember those times with happiness.(San Carlos de Bariloche, Argentina)




My father is a simple laborer and my mother has the brain of a twelve year old child. She has a development problem. I was never able to ask her questions when I was growing up, like: ‘How does this work?’ or ‘What does this mean?’ She was the one asking me all the questions. She never said much to me beyond ‘Hello.’ For the longest time I thought it was normal. But when I started to visit the houses of my friends, I noticed that their mothers were hugging them, and cooking them food, and talking to them. But I had no one to take care of me. I started going to nightclubs at the age of twelve. I had no supervision. I never went to college. I still live at home now. I work seventy hours a week and I don’t have a family of my own. If I left the house, it would be a disaster. Neither of my parents can read or write. I do everything for them. I feel like there are no doors open for me, but often I hear people say: ‘No matter what, you can accomplish your dreams.’ So I do feel guilty for not achieving more.(Cordoba, Argentina)




She wasn’t naming things like other children her age. She wasn’t pointing at things. She would never respond when we tried to correct her. Often small things would upset her, and we’d try to comfort her, but nothing worked. All I wanted to do was tell her that I loved her and everything would be ‘ok.’ But she would push away if I tried to hug or kiss her. She was my little girl but I couldn’t even hold her. All I ever did was worry about her. We go to a therapist twice a week now, and things are getting better. Everything began to change a few months ago. She pulled me by the hand one morning to show me what she found. And sometimes she looks at me and listens. She’s the first one to wake up in the morning, and she’ll come to the side of the bed, and ask to lie next to us. And she even loves to get hugs and kisses. (Buenos Aires, Argentina)




You can feel in the streets that everyone is worried. We come from a very small town. The engine of our entire economy is a candy factory, and people are getting laid off. I don’t like my job. I package the candies and I have to stay indoors all day. When I was younger, I would think about quitting. My bags were always packed. But everything changes when you feel a small hand gripping your finger. Now I’m terrified of losing my job. Every morning we have a routine. Whenever I don’t feel like going to work, he says ‘come here,’ and he gives me a hug, and that changes me. He’s my battery charger. (Cordoba, Argentina)




There were early signs. I used to have this feeling that I could manipulate the future. I got lucky at casinos, and I thought it was because I had the power to control events. I was a biology teacher back then. I was married with four kids. I read three books per week. I was only getting a few hours of sleep every night. Then one morning on the bus I had a break from reality. I was speaking to a friend, and I started to understand her in a completely different way. And the things I understood were evil. It was like my entire mental structure had changed. I began to frighten people. I lost all filters. I would say all of the strange things that I was thinking. People thought I was on drugs. I lost my job. My wife went to her mother’s place with the kids. I ended up sleeping on the streets. It took me years to realize I had schizophrenia. I was put in a psychiatric ward for two months. Now I’m taking three different medications. I’m reading books again. I’ve got some self-esteem back. I’m building a relationship with my kids. But I’m still fighting it. It’s always there. It doesn’t come and go. It’s a continuous way of looking at the world that I must keep pushing back against. (Cordoba, Argentina)




I’m the link between him and the rest of the world. It can be an exhausting role. When things go well, I feel an increased sense of responsibility. It felt like the audience was clapping for both of us when he graduated from primary school. But I also feel an increased sense of responsibility when things go wrong. He has difficulties in crowds of people. A few years ago he got very nervous at the supermarket, and he pushed a young girl. Her father got very angry and started screaming at me. Part of me felt guilty for what happened. But part of me wished that more people understood what I go through. We haven’t been to a supermarket since that incident. The best moments for me are when he’s able to link to the world without me. Last Thursday we were visiting another girl with Downs Syndrome. And she was having a bad day. There was very little communication. So he tried to give her a box of dominos as a gift. But she refused. So he tried again. But she refused again. They went back and forth like this for a while, until the girl started to view it as a game, and she started to smile. Then he gave her a hug. A real hug with feeling. He made a connection. And it was his idea. Not mine. (Rosario, Argentina)




I hate being a kid because my video games are too hard." (Cordoba, Argentina)




All the workers on my oil platform were laid off five months ago. I didn’t save the money when I had it. Now it’s been six months since I last worked. I even had to ask my mother-in-law for money last Saturday so I could buy milk for the kids. I have to do something. Maybe I can drive a taxi or something. If I don’t get a job soon, I think the family will break apart. My wife is always asking me what I’m going to do. It’s like she doesn’t even understand what’s happening in the economy right now. Even my four-year-old son feels that something is wrong. He’s started to ask me when I’m going back to work. I lie to him. I tell him I’m on medical leave. I don’t want him to feel this stress too. (Buenos Aires, Argentina)




There weren’t many opportunities to work in Paraguay. I was selling tools on the street. There was no money. There was nothing. I came to Argentina when I was nineteen and life has been so much better. I work every day. I’m close to opening another shop just like this. I do get called a lot of names like ‘Shitty Paraguayan.’ But I’m used to it now. In the beginning I would try to fight back, but not anymore. When I first arrived, I fought a man who tried to stab me through the cage. But he came back with twenty people and destroyed my store. So I don’t fight back anymore. Everyone in the neighborhood knows me now, so I’m treated with more respect. And my son was born in this country. So this one is an Argentinian. He's going to study.(Buenos Aires, Argentina)


She lost her back legs when she got hit by a car. She’d already been returned to the shelter twice already. She’s a lot of work. It’s almost like having a child. You need to be very patient. You always need to change her diaper. It’s very hard to find a babysitter. But I’ve had her for 1.5 years now and I can’t imagine life without her. Everyone loves Lucy. And Lucy loves everyone. She can’t wag her tail, so I was worried that I’d never know if she was happy. But she tells me with her eyes. (Rosario, Argentina)


I met him five years ago. He answered an advertisement that I posted for cleaning services. His place was a mess. He was living like a hermit. He was a hypochondriac. His wife passed away in 2007, so he was just sitting around on the computer and waiting to die. Now we are like family. I visit him every day. We have over 5,000 pictures together. We go shopping. We go on walks. He even cooks now. He has given me a purpose. All of his accomplishments make me proud. Sometimes I feel like I’ve created a monster! He’s become a completely different person.(Buenos Aires, Argentina)




Even if we have equal rank, a man always tries to take charge of the situation.(Buenos Aires, Argentina)




My parents disappeared during the last dictatorship. They were political activists. My father was taken first in 1977. My mother was taken a year later during the World Cup. We were standing in a public square, and two cars stopped, and they grabbed me and my mother. They let me go. But my mother was never heard from again. I learned all of this later because I was only three at the time. My grandparents raised me. When I was a child they would tell me that my parents were working. I used to imagine them building a skyscraper, wearing helmets, and getting closer and closer to the top. It wasn’t until the age of ten that I learned what really happened. But even then, my parents were only ideas to me. They were two-dimensional. But when I turned seventeen, I visited the town where they first met. I found their old friends and they told me stories. I learned that my father loved the Beatles. He also loved to dance. A man gave me a costume that my father would wear when he danced. And suddenly my parents weren’t ideas anymore. They were people. They were Daniel and Viviana. And for the first time, I cried for them. (Buenos Aires, Argentina)




He’s not too romantic but he does close himself in the bedroom while I’m studying for my law exams.(San Carlos de Bariloche, Argentina)




I love my brother so much. One time he said he didn’t love me. But then he said that he really did. And then we hugged.(Buenos Aires, Argentina)




It’s a bittersweet time. I’m trying to be happy because it’s said that the baby will absorb sad moments. But my father died five months ago, today. We don’t know exactly what happened. He was alone. We think someone tried to rob him because he was found shot to death in his car. I think it was hardest for me because we were so close. He used to visit me at the hospital every day while I was working. I learned that I was pregnant shortly after he died. I think my pregnancy is what’s keeping our family alive. Especially my mother. She’s always with me now. She gets me everything I need. The baby keeps both of us looking forward. It’s going to be a girl.(Buenos Aires, Argentina)




This is the farthest that I've ever ridden!" (Buenos Aires, Argentina)




I’m looking for a tall man. 85 to 90 years old. Preferably a professional. Needs to have a good mood. But other than that I’m pretty open. If you know anybody, let me know.(Buenos Aires, Argentina)




When I was younger, I’d always leave the house dressed like a man, but then I’d change my clothes. My mother told me the devil was in me. My father said that I was useless. They even took me to the doctor to find out what was going on. But my grandfather always supported me. He was more open-minded than my parents. I think it's because he worked at a 24 hour restaurant and met all the people who came out at night. Even when I was a child, he'd see the clothes I wore, and he'd tell me: ‘If you were a girl, you’d be very beautiful.’ When I finally told him everything I was feeling, he said: ‘You’re a great person, and I’ll never be afraid of what’s going on with you.’(Buenos Aires, Argentina)




I didn’t want to be a mother. I was eighteen. We weren’t in love. I had goals I wanted to accomplish. So I made the hardest decision of my life. It’s not legal here. So I researched it on the Internet. I did it myself. In my room. If things had gone wrong, I could have died. Seeing it come out of me was the worst moment of my life. And I couldn’t tell anyone. Not even my parents. So I carried the secret with me. I felt like this thing was always in my chest, but it was stuck there. All day I’d act normal. Then at night I’d go to my room and cry. (Buenos Aires, Argentina)




I wrote her the message while I was lying in my bed. It said: ‘I don’t want to go too fast, but will you be my girlfriend?’ After I hit ‘send,’ I was so nervous that I laid the phone down next to me. I couldn’t even look at the screen. My nose was sweating. After two minutes, I saw it vibrate. I picked it up, and it said: ‘Yes!’ I felt so good. It felt like killing five characters at one time in League of Legends. These last five days have been magic. I feel so happy and nervous at the same time. This is my first girlfriend so I don’t even know what to do. I don’t know what to talk about. I don’t even know how to sit.(Buenos Aires, Argentina)




I can do all the same things as my wife except for the milk part. And I try to make up for that by reading a lot of stories and showing her my vinyl collection. (Buenos Aires, Argentina)


Mario and I had been friends since the age of six. We were from the same small town in the countryside. We always kept in touch. We’d occasionally get coffee together. I knew he was gay but we never talked about it. It just didn’t come up. He never volunteered the information and I never asked. I felt that I was being respectful. At one point, I began to notice that his face was changing. He started to get very thin. But I never asked about it. Maybe I thought that he’d feel I was invading his privacy. Mario could get offended very easily. He was like a volcano. Maybe, subconsciously, I just didn’t want to get involved. When I finally knew for sure, it was too late. I visited him at the hospital the day before he died. I could only look at him through a glass window. He was covered in blankets. I felt like such an idiot. I could have asked him at any time. I could have said: ‘What are you hiding from me? Are you sick? Are you afraid I will reject you?’ Then we could have hugged each other and cried together. We could have maybe even laughed at the situation. But we never got to do that. Because I never had the balls to ask. (Buenos Aires, Argentina)




This is the first time I've ever been in love. My mother put me in an orphanage when I was one year old. I went from bonding with her every day to lying in a room with a hundred other cribs. It's been seventy-three years since then, and I'm finally allowing myself to be dependent on the love of another person.




When I try to jump, I don’t leave the ground. It’s killing my Zumba.




My dad was a blackout, abusive drunk. I’ve been on my own since I was sixteen, and after that it was nothing but abusive relationships and hell. Mark was the only guy who'd ever been nice to me. We were married for five years. He’d bring flowers to my office. He would make me a bubble bath in the morning before I woke up. He even treated my daughter like she was his own. He didn’t say ‘our daughter.’ He always called her ‘my daughter.’ He’d even watch me sleep. I could never sleep because of everything that has happened to me. But I could sleep when I was with him. And he knew that, so he liked to watch me sleep. One night I woke up and he was watching me like he always did. But I leaned over to kiss him and he was cold. It's been over a year now. For awhile I was so depressed that I couldn't leave my room. But I'm trying to get my life back together.




For the last eight years I’ve been the head of communications for the UN Refugee Agency. My job is to make people care about the sixty million displaced people in the world. I wish I could tell every single one of their stories. Because if people knew their stories, I don’t think there would be so many walls. And there wouldn’t be so many people drowning in the seas. But I don’t think I anticipated how difficult it would be to make people care. It’s not that people are selfish. I just think that people have a hard time caring when they feel insecure. When the world is unstable, people feel vulnerable. And vulnerable people focus on protecting what they have. They focus on their own families. They focus on their own communities. It can be very hard to welcome strangers when you’re made to feel threatened. Even if those strangers are more vulnerable than you. - This is my friend Melissa Fleming, who I think is one of the most important people in the world, and who was so instrumental in helping organize the HONY refugee series. Tomorrow at 7pm we will be in conversation at the Union Square Barnes and Noble, to celebrate the launch of her new book: A Hope More Powerful Than The Sea, which tells the powerful story of a young woman who survived a shipwreck while fleeing the war in Syria. If you can’t make the signing, you can get the book here: 


I always told myself that when I reached a certain point in life, I’d get a dog. I thought maybe when I get my own home. Or when I’m more settled. But that point never seemed to come. So I decided to go ahead and adopt. The majority of the dogs at the pound were pit bulls. I originally wanted a younger dog, but this one had a red card on her cage, which meant that she was going to be euthanized. She was emaciated and had kennel cough. But when I reached out my hand, she licked it. I named her ‘Adidas’ because I wanted a running partner. But that dream ended pretty early. All she wants to do is hug and kiss and lay on you. She doesn’t care who you are. If she senses that you’re the least bit receptive to her, she’s coming right toward you. Just a few minutes ago she jumped into somebody’s wheelchair. It’s made me more of a people person. I’m always having to explain to people why she’s trying to kiss them.




My first tattoo said: I Hate. I tattooed over it a long time ago. I was twenty-one when I got it. It was a very self-destructive period of my life. I’d dropped out of college. My girlfriend had just left me for an older guy. I’d gotten a Mohawk and was doing a lot of slam dancing. I felt like everyone in the family was disappointed with me. My dad was a very successful attorney. My brother was a diplomat. So I rebelled against everything and decided that I was going to live the whole ‘poetry lifestyle.’ I lived in the desert for a couple years. Then I came to New York and tried to survive as a poet. I ended up working as a freak in the Coney Island Side Show. But after fifteen years, even that became like any other job. It was the exact same thing every day. Only the audience changed. I still haven’t figured out what I was trying to escape. There’s no such thing as a true outsider. We all have to breathe. We all have to eat. We all have to work. I wanted to run away from everything but I ran into myself. I’m still a middle class, intellectual kid from the suburbs.




God doesn’t answer my prayers like he once did. But he still talks to me. He talks to me through my mind and through my own mouth. He’s upset with me because he wanted me to wave at someone on the street and I didn’t. So he took away my money and told me to leave my jobs. My family put me in the hospital and they said I was bipolar. But I’m not mentally ill. I take the medicine because it’s part of the deal for me having my own apartment, but I’m not mentally ill. When I’ve paid my debt, God is going to transform my voice. He’s going to make me a great singer. One night I had a dream that I was singing and something golden fell from the sky. And I caught it so everyone gathered around me. I hope you pray about me and then you’ll see the truth. Pray to God and ask him: ‘Is this man honest, or is he mentally ill?’


I always thought of kids as being simple in a way. I knew that having a child would be challenging, but I underestimated how complicated their emotions can be. I thought I’d have greater influence over my child’s mood. I imagined that I’d be able to make him happy when he’s unhappy. I hoped that I would always have a solution. But you learn quickly that some unhappiness doesn’t have a quick fix. And often it’s just part of who he is. And that can be painful to accept. Sometimes I just have to provide as much guidance as possible, and trust that he’ll find comfort within himself.


My mom and I have always been close. But we had to learn how to communicate again after my dad died. It took therapy. We’d stopped being honest with each other. My dad’s illness had been so stressful that we didn’t want to create any additional worries. So we tried to protect each other. Neither of us would admit if we were having a bad day. Or if we were feeling depressed. The answer to everything was always: ‘I’m fine.’ But we weren’t fine. And it was obvious. So we worried about each other all the time. It caused a lot of stress and arguments. We had to relearn how to admit when we were having a bad day. Because you can never truly know if someone's "fine' unless you trust them to tell you when something's wrong.


I call them clobber verses. There are six of them. They’re the verses that get used to hammer gay people. The funny thing is that I never felt pressured by God himself. Only his followers. But I desperately wanted God to change me. I didn’t want to be part of a group with so much shame attached to it. So I started praying in my twenties for God to make me straight. If I could have taken a pill, I would have. I joined the ministry. I got married. I told my wife that I’d had experiences with men, but I convinced both of us that I could choose to be different. I wanted to be normal. I wanted kids. I thought it was just a matter of commitment. I even tried to take reparative therapy classes—just to show her I was serious. They tried to teach me that homosexuality wasn’t real. They said that I'd just had an overbearing mother. But I couldn’t change. I kept slipping up. I couldn’t give my wife what she needed. My marriage ended. I had tried so hard but nothing worked. I got so angry with God for not keeping up his end of the bargain. But after some time, I finally realized why he wouldn’t change me. He never felt like he needed to.




I like watching her get excited about things. She has a very distinct look when amazement comes over her face. Like she gets really excited about dachshunds. I always text her pictures of dachshunds. Or the tile work at the 81st street subway station. She loves that. Or warm socks. I mean… warm socks are kind of exciting to me. But she really loves warm socks.




I thought when I came to New York it was going to be this huge change of scenery and that I could be whoever I want to be. I thought there’d always be a plan, or an event, and that I’d never feel alone, and that I’d be very ‘fabulous’ — for lack of a better word. ‘Carrie Bradshaw-esque,’ so to speak. But in reality, I still spend a lot of time alone. I think it’s because I’m afraid of being a burden on those around me. What if I’m not fun enough? What if the parts of me that are sad and complaining outweigh the parts of me that are good? Will I be wasting other people’s time? And when I do spend time with other people, I’m afraid to demand a certain level of kindness and respect. Because maybe that will make me even more of a burden. So I don’t reach out to other people very much. I spend a lot of time alone. But then I still get mad when I look on Snapchat and see people hanging out without me. But I’m trying to change my thinking. I’m not allowed to feel left out if I’m not making an effort. I’m not the protagonist of reality. I can’t expect good relationships to happen just because I exist.




Last year I started figure modeling for art classes. I’m plus-sized, so I was a little worried about being nude. I was nervous about everyone seeing my stomach, and my thighs, and all my fat. But apparently my curves are fun to draw. In the classroom, all the features I saw as negative were viewed as assets. One student told me that it’s no fun to draw straight lines. It’s been liberating for me. I’ve always been insecure about my belly. But now my belly has been part of so many beautiful pieces of art.




I want to be a stand up comic. The hardest thing is to find material that’s not just funny—but also true. Funny can just be a surprise. But good comedy articulates truth in a certain way. And I don't think I've experienced enough to know what’s true for other people. I’ve had a bit of a charmed life. Nothing too traumatic has happened to me. I have a lot of creative energy but I’m not sure that I have the arsenal to back it up. Recently I was at an open mic upstate, and there was an older guy performing who used to be a heroin addict. There was just this sense that you should be paying attention to every word he says, and not just the punch line. I’m not there yet.




I felt like sometimes she didn’t want me born. I was like Cinderella—even though I was a dude. She blamed me for everything. Maybe it’s because I was ugly, I guess. Girls were all running from me. My brothers were better looking. When I grew older, it was all about money. Mom and I never discussed anything personal. It seemed like she always wanted something from me. One time I called her crying, because I was trying to quit marijuana, and I felt really depressed. She just told me: ‘You’re wasting all that money on weed. You could be giving it to me instead. She used to cash my student loan checks. One time she even used my social security number to get a credit card, and I didn’t even know until I got the bill. So I detached myself from her. I stopped answering the phone. Then two years ago she called to tell me she had cancer, and she needed an operation, but I didn’t even answer the phone. I thought she was tricking me again. She left a message, it said: ‘Michael, I’ve been trying to get a hold of you. I love you. And I know you love me.’ And I just ignored it. And she died. And I’m haunted by that. I’ve been trying to write about my life lately, but I can’t get past my mother. I wish I could just start my story with that phone call. With her saying that she loved me. The only other time I ever felt love from her was when I tried crack cocaine. I was a teenager, and I had been using for a couple weeks, and I went in her room to ask for baking soda. She started crying, and she looked scared, and she said: ‘Michael, why do you need baking soda?’ And I felt love at that moment. And it was so strong that I quit doing crack right then. I never used again. I didn’t go to a program or anything. That’s how strong that feeling was.


I’m what they call ‘ethnically ambiguous,’ so I get a lot of work as a background actor. I’m playing a ‘parkgoer’ today. It’s my 25th job since October. In Madam Secretary alone, I’ve played an Israeli military officer, a Colombian college student, and an advisor to the Iranian president. And that was all in the same season. They’ll keep using you as long as you don’t have any speaking lines. Maybe one day I'll have a recurring role, but right now I’m really grateful to be doing this. My parents are immigrants from El Salvador. They are the hardest working people I know. They were really skeptical about me wanting to be an actor, so I love that they get to see me working. My first gig was a Hallmark Christmas movie with Melissa Joan Hart and Dean Cain. My parents couldn’t believe that I was on the same show as Sabrina The Teenage Witch and Superman.




When the last kid left for college, it came to a point where it was just pretense. And I couldn’t hide it anymore. I was tired of worrying if people suspected, or if they’d find out, or if they’d still care about me if they knew. The first person I came out to was my wife. It was wrenching. It was the end of our marriage. I just kept telling her I was sorry. I think she felt abandoned. And I’m sorry for that. I also think she felt that our life together was a lie. But I don’t see it that way. We were a family. We had four wonderful children that we raised to adulthood. And those are facts. I’m not happy about the hurt I caused. But I feel authentic now. I regret the things I did, but I’m so happy about what I’ve done.




My mom has been really sick for 50 to 60 percent of my life. She had a nervous breakdown when my father left, and she ended up in a psychiatric ward. Then she had breast cancer twice while I was young. I was her only child so it was a lot of pressure. While my friends were at the playground, I’d be coming home to pick my mother up off the bathroom floor. I’m newly married now and have a child on the way. But I still have to worry about her all the time. She never remarried, so I’m all she has. She’s on oxygen now. She was so sick during my honeymoon that I had to call the hospital every three hours. Every evening when I get home from work, she has a list of things for me to do. If I don’t visit for a few days, she tells me how selfish I am. She’ll say: ‘Forget it. I’m fine without visitors. Don’t come back.’ I don’t know what I want to happen. But I’m starting a new family. And I’m at the point where I’d like some freedom to live my life.


I teach English at a community college in Queens. I love the job, but I hate grading papers. I’d prefer to just have one continuous discussion about Shakespeare. I envy the math teachers who can just put their tests through a Scantron machine. Placing value on a student’s writing is much more nuanced and complicated. What if they have great ideas but their English language skills aren’t as developed? What if English is their second language? What if they’ve faced major challenges in life? Do I ignore those things? Or do I consider context while grading? I want to set high standards and prepare my students for what comes next. But so many of them already have a self-defeating attitude. And I don’t want to discourage them any further.




My father wants me to come home to Botswana. He tells me that he’s getting older and he needs me to come home. I miss my family, but I want to stay here. Life is different for me here. I’ve met so many people from so many cultures. I’ve done half marathons. I even did a triathlon. It’s different back in Botswana. I was completely dependent on my father. Women don’t leave home until they get married. So I’d like to stay here. But my sister is the only family that I have in America. And last week she told me that she’s moving back to Botswana. So now I’ll be on my own. And I’m worried. Because I don’t like to ask for help. But I never had a problem asking her for help. And now I won’t have that anymore. But a few months ago I joined something at my church called a ‘connect group.’ And now I have so many friends. They are like my sisters. We have brunches, and dinners, and go hiking. I feel very loved by them. So I’m hoping they will be like my family.




I was first exposed to ballet at the age of seven when a traveling company came to my church in North Carolina. By the time I was eleven I was practicing six days a week. It became my all-consuming monastic devotion. I eventually made it to the New York City Ballet. I’ve always seen ballet as my way of serving God. I think it’s what God has called me to do. You can call it frivolous, or superficial. But you can stretch that argument to infinity. Why do we have painting? Why do we have architecture? I think it’s all a form of worship. In a secular age the theater becomes the cathedral. There can be such a lack of empathy and collaboration in this world. But in the theater we see beauty and order and harmony modeled for us two hours at a time. And it took a lot of sacrifice to make that possible.




My parents are old school. We’re from Bolivia. The daughter isn’t supposed to leave the house until she’s married. But I left when I was nineteen because I couldn’t take the constant fighting about how to live my life. It’s not that I wanted to be promiscuous. I just wanted to explore New York and have black friends and white friends and gay friends. I’ve had a bad relationship with my parents ever since. I ended up marrying a Dominican boy from Corona. He’s been nothing but good to me. But they’ve never accepted him. We got married at City Hall. I’m thirty-three now. We just had our first child. So I thought things would finally get better with my parents. I thought we could relate as equals now that I have my own child. Maybe they’d finally accept my choices. But they’re still the same. My mother helps babysit my child while I’m at work. She does everything her own way. She criticizes all my decisions. When I insist on raising my child a certain way, she gets upset. She starts crying and reminds me that I left the house when I was nineteen. Then my father calls and yells at me for upsetting my mother. It breaks my heart. But I’m realizing that a good relationship with my parents will always require doing exactly what they say.




I’m scared to go back to work. I just called out someone in front of a large group of people. I just wouldn’t let it go. I should have taken it offline, but I had to be right. I could have stepped back, watched the movie version of myself, and seen how my behavior was being seen by the people around me. But no I just couldn’t let it go. My therapist would be so upset with me right now. I almost went home, but there was a woman taking a diarrhea shit on the train platform. So I think God, who I don’t even believe in, is telling me that I need to go back to the office and figure this out.




I'm not sure if people have become less interesting, or if I'm just less interested in people."




I come from Ghana. I’m always smiling. People ask me: ‘Isaac, why are you always smiling?' I tell them: ‘What else can I do?’ I am so blessed to be in this country. I work in customer service at the CVS on 57th Street and I love it. CVS is the best place that I love so much. I help people with their needs and it makes me so happy. I help them with their coupons. I help them with their medication. People bring me their challenges and I solve their problems. You can say that I am their champion. I am not a citizen. But when I help people with their problems, that makes me part of the community. So I do feel like an American.




We’ve been together for twenty years. I’ve never dated anyone else. But there’s no intimacy. There’s no ring on the finger. He doesn’t even want his family to know we’re together. Maybe it’s my weight. Maybe it’s a status thing. But he keeps me away from his family. I accidentally sat by his sister at a basketball game, and his jaw nearly dropped to the floor. We’ve only made love once. That was twelve years ago. He won’t kiss me or touch me. I’ve just stopped asking. But he insists that we’re in a relationship. He got mad when I tried to change my relationship status to ‘single.’ He got on my computer and changed it back. I didn’t even know that he knew my password. I told myself that I was OK with it. I told myself that I’m OK with not being touched. But I don’t think I am. I recently went to a therapist for the first time. I was so scared he’d find out that I parked my car next door. But maybe it would be good if he found out. Maybe he’d leave me and give me a chance.




We didn’t expect to be raising our granddaughter. We used to talk about moving to the country when we retired. Now we talk about moving to the best school districts. I’m working as much as I can. I worry every day that something will happen to us before she’s grown. I’m going to the gym more. I’m trying to stay healthy. I’m enrolled in a special savings program for her college education. I’ve been adding money to it since the day she was born. Because if something happens to me, the amount doubles.




I grew up in the suburbs. I used to think that I could write a prescription for a poor man: ‘Get a job, save your money, pull yourself up by the bootstraps.’ I don’t believe that anymore. I was ignorant to the experiences of poor people. I’d invite anyone to come and meet the people who live in this neighborhood. Right now we are surrounded by working poor people. These are the people who sell your tools at Sears, and fix your roofs, and take care of your parents, and mow your lawns, and serve your meals. They’re not getting a living wage. There’s no money left to save. There’s nothing left if they get sick. Nothing left if their car breaks down. And God forbid they make a mistake, because there’s nothing left to pay fines or fees. When you’re down here, the system will continue to kick dirt in your face. You can’t pull yourself up when there’s nothing to grab onto. We aren’t paying our brothers and sisters enough to live. We want them to serve us, but we aren’t serving them.




All the bosses care about is getting the job done. So if you have a good work ethic, the work falls on you more. The bosses know that it’s easier to push a good worker than it is to get a bad worker to do their job. It’s the path of least resistance. Especially when the boss happens to be friends with the bad workers. It used to really bother me. I couldn’t stand the injustice of it. But I’ve had to learn to let it go. I was bringing the stress home with me. I’d get mad at little things and slam drawers. I was even having rage dreams. I abhor violence, but I was having dreams where the boss would criticize my work and my hands would go around his neck. So I had to learn to let it go. I used to really care about the job. But I’ve had to just start viewing it as a paycheck.




My ninety-year-old mother just moved in with us. So I’ve become a full time caretaker. I’m all she’s got. My father passed away and I’m her only child. So I’m it. Right now she has a lot of negativity. She seems to fixate on the negative side of things. If I suggest going outside, she’ll say it’s too cold. If I suggest that we go shopping, she’ll say there’s too much traffic. She wants her independence, but when she has it, she gets lonely. It’s hard for me. Because I’m a positive person by nature. And it’s hard to deal with so much negative energy. My husband is worried about me. He thinks it’s too much to deal with. I have a family, a life, and a business. But I’d be even more of a wreck if I put her in assisted living. I need to know for sure that she’s getting the proper care. Because for all her negativity, my mother always taught us respect. Respect your toys. Respect your parents. Respect other people. Respect their property. Respect is the basis for everything. Without it, everything falls apart.




This was supposed to be a regular hi mom visit. It was my first time coming home in five years. I was expecting my mother to pick me up from the airport, but my sister-in-law was there when I landed. She told me that my mother was in the hospital. She was bleeding internally and had a blood clot in her leg. Right after we arrived, two surgeons sat me down, and told me they needed a decision immediately. They’d given my mother eleven units of blood and they wanted to amputate her leg and give her a colonoscopy bag. At first I asked if we could do nothing. But then I told them to go ahead and do it. And I think I made the wrong decision. She’s recovering now, and it’s becoming apparent that she’ll never be able to do basic things by herself. And I know my mother. She’s a very independent woman. She rakes her own leaves and blows the snow off her own driveway. She wouldn’t want to live like this. She’d never say this to me, but I think she feels that I let her down.




I’ve been on my own since the age of twelve. My mom decided that her drug-dealing boyfriend was more important than me. One night I came home from playing and the key wouldn’t turn. I started banging on the door but nobody answered. I lived with friends for the next few years. I went from house to house, couch to couch. My friend’s mom was a bartender so she got me a job washing dishes. I saved enough money to get a car when I turned sixteen, and I drove out to Arizona. I was pregnant by the time I was twenty-one. My son changed my life. I didn’t turn into Mother Theresa overnight. I had to unlearn everything I’d ever known. I had to learn how to do things the right way, not sell drugs, not cut corners. Right now I’m trying to finish college while being a single mother. I’m taking care of my eighty-three year old grandmother. I just beat cancer for the second time in four years. But things seem to be quiet now. I’m always holding my breath, though. The story of my life has been the calm before the storm.




My grandmother got me a violin when I was thirteen. Whenever people were fighting, and I wanted to get away, I’d just go in my room and play. Sometimes I’d play for four or five hours per night. It gave me a lot of confidence. I started playing in front of the church, in front of the school it made me feel good about myself. But my mom struggled a lot. She made a lot of mistakes. She got in some bad relationships and we lived in a lot of different places. Sometimes we’d go weeks without having power. One time it got really bad and we had to start selling our stuff. She didn’t ask me to sell my violin. But we’d already sold our TV. And she just asked if I had any ideas. I ended up selling it to a friend for $145. I was really upset for a while. I’m a Christian, and God knew how much I loved the violin. So I was confused why he’d make me sell it. For a few months, I tried to keep playing in the music room at school. But eventually I had to stop so I could focus on paying the bills. I got a real job at the grocery store.




I fostered thirteen little babies in my life. It’s just a passion I have in my heart. Often they’d just come wrapped in a blanket. I could only foster one at a time because I had five children of my own. But one time a mother dropped three children off on my doorstep. She had just given them chocolate ice cream. I’ll never forget how the ice cream was dripping off their faces. Most of the time I’d only have the children for a few months. And once they were adopted, I’d never contact them again. But I often wonder what happened to them. Maybe we’ll meet again in heaven.




I thought I was going to work until I died. But they came in and told me that I was too old and that I didn’t know the computer. They thought I was obsolete. If that’s true—then how did I get so far without the computer? I’ve got that computer in my head. I can design the whole process. I can start with a blank sheet of paper and cycle the whole line: the robots, the tooling, everything. That was my life. At night when I go to sleep, I’m still building welding lines. There were only 1800 of us in this town that could do it. And each of us had our own style. People could recognize Norm Szewsky’s work. But you know what happened? They took all 1800 of our brains, and they put them in a computer. So now a guy who don’t know nothing can just press a button, and out comes a clamp. Oh well, I don’t really give a shit. I’m checking out soon.




(3/3) I miss that we can’t go out and dance. Or visit other people. We used to volunteer at the senior center every Wednesday. She’d play the piano, and I’d turn the pages for her. The hymns were some of the last things she remembered. Music was her life. But one day she wouldn’t play anymore. And I told the staff that they’d need to find someone else. So we stay here now. But I don’t see this as a curse. It’s an honor. This is what the Lord has given me to do. She has served this family her entire life. And now it’s my turn to serve her. I might not have her mentally. But I have her. I can still make her smile. I can make bubbly noises, and blow on her, and she’ll smile. Every morning we’ll sit in this chair and we’ll cuddle until noon. I rock this lady more than I rock my grandchildren. She likes to slip her hand under my shirt to feel my skin. And she still likes to kiss. Every once in awhile she’ll reach up and give me a kiss. Sometimes she starts ‘yakking.’ She doesn’t say actual words. And it doesn't make any sense. But I never tell her to be quiet, because it’s better than nothing at all.




(2/3) We celebrated our 50th wedding anniversary in Branson, Missouri. On the drive home, she kept telling me that we were going the wrong way. She was very insistent. I didn’t fight her. I kept letting her turn around because I knew that eventually we’d hit the main road back to Michigan. I knew then. Her father had dementia. And so did his father. So I knew what was happening. Soon she started forgetting names. When it started getting really bad, she wanted to walk away. She was always trying to leave the house. I’d have to lie in front of the door to keep her from going. One morning I woke up and I couldn’t find her. I freaked out: ‘Where did she go? Where did she go?’ I ran outside and it was totally dark. Down the road there was a streetlight. And I could barely see her—crossing the road. I ran and I got her. But she fought me. She didn’t want to come back home.




(1/3) I was nineteen. She was sixteen. Our dates were normally on Sunday. We didn’t do much of anything. We were conservative. I was a farmer. We weren’t those swinging type people. But every date was a little more cuddly. Then she took me to her senior prom. It was just ten miles from here—in Richmond. I was the only one there without a tuxedo. All those city folks didn’t know what to make of me. I can’t tell you when we fell in love. I can’t even tell you when I asked her to marry me. It was just natural. I think we were just sitting in the car and I gave her the ring. I don't have many big moments to share. We were simple people. They were all happy days.




Don’t get me wrong. I want everyone to get along. And I don’t want to sound racist. But they’re coming into our country. If you ask me, that makes them racist. There’s something going on with the Muslims. There’s something going on there. There’s a lot we don’t know about. They have a game plan. They want all the businesses. They want control. They want my grandchildren to work for them. I’m hoping he can do something about it. We need somebody to say no.




This racial stuff to me is BS and I’m tired of hearing it. I have it made because I’m a white male? I’m prejudiced? That shit is long ago. Way long ago. Enough of it. It’s all the media. It’s all for ratings. It’s this false racial shit that they keep pumping into everybody’s head. They’re keeping everyone on edge. If there’s a police shooting—it’s white versus black. Always white versus black. Who cares about the facts? Race is more important. Watching the news, you’d think there was a race war out there. But then I walk outside and I just don’t see it. I hold the door for the black guy. He holds the door for me. I wouldn’t even know there was a problem if it wasn’t for the television. They need to quit making shit out of nothing.




I feel homeless. Like this isn’t the place that I thought it was. I feel like I don’t understand where I am. Where we all are. Last week students started chanting ‘build the wall’ in the lunchroom of a local middle school. Some of the Hispanic children started crying. If you’re the principal how are you supposed to stop that behavior? If the president can behave in a certain way, how are you supposed to tell a child that it’s unacceptable? How does that hold up? It breaks my heart. I’ve had friends reach out to me. They’ve told me: ‘I understand the reasons that you’re upset. But those aren’t the reasons I voted for him.’ And I’m just starting to understand that. I’m realizing that a lot of people wanted change more than they wanted kids not to cry. We all have our own code of ethics. My bottom line happened to be tolerance. Their bottom line was abortion. Or the Supreme Court. I guess we all have the right to choose our own bottom line.




This isn’t the first time I’ve owned a flower shop. I owned another store twenty years ago, but it went bankrupt. I was devastated. I’d just gotten divorced. I felt like a complete failure. For months I couldn’t even drive down the street where the shop had been. But one day a friend told me that I’d been looking at it all wrong. He told me: ‘You’re focused too much on the closing. Think of all the years that the shop was open. Think of all the jobs you provided, the flowers that you sold, and all the people that you served. You were open for twenty years. It was happening. And just because it didn’t happen forever, doesn’t mean it wasn’t valuable.’




I just think that people are looking to blame someone else for their problems. They’re worried about the wrong stuff. They’re too fixated on what other people are getting. I wasn’t able to go to college. My mom raised five kids on her own. I’ve had to work since I was sixteen. So I haven’t gotten to do all the things I wanted to do. But I’ve never complained. I’ve never been ‘too good’ for a job. I worked at Burger King. I worked at Walmart. Now I work at Chrysler. And I got promoted at all three places. I've never had a problem getting noticed. Managers notice things. If you don’t complain, and work hard, and pick up shifts, you’ll move up. So I don't complain. I’m twenty-eight now. I have no debt. Chrysler even has a program where they’ll pay for my college. I've got enough to help out my mom. I’m actually picking her up a new dryer right now.




I thought we were happy. We had two kids. She was a great mom. But three or four years into our marriage, she started playing that Sims game online. You can be anyone in that game. She could be the perfect wife or whatever. She was always on that computer. Then she started playing this other game where you can marry, date, and screw people. All of it is fake, but people actually develop feelings for each other. In real life these guys are probably 450 lbs. but online they look like Superman. There was actually one guy that she called ‘her Superman.’ He even started mailing Superman trinkets to the house. She wouldn’t quit. I even tried to break her cellphone with my hand. I just wanted her to live her life with us. But we weren’t enough for her.




I’ve known since I was thirteen. It wasn’t a struggle for me. I didn’t question whether it was ‘right’ or ‘wrong.’ I just knew it was me. But I’m still completely closeted. I’m part of a very religious community. Even my choice to go to college was questioned. It’s seen as not trusting in God. If my family knew I was gay, I’d be cut off completely. Listen, they’re not bad. They aren’t bad people. It’s just what they believe. I’m not angry at them. I’m angry at the situation. If I choose to fall in love, then nobody that I’ve ever known will speak to me again.




My father was on strike one Christmas. I think I was six years old. And whenever the union was on strike, we’d go without. So there weren’t many presents under the tree that year. Dad explained to us that he was standing up for everybody, and that he needed our help. He promised us that he’d get us more presents once he got back to work. Then the night before Christmas, somebody broke into our house. They slit the screen on one of the windows and stole everything. I woke up to my mom screaming. All our presents were gone. But that ended up being the best Christmas we ever had. Because a few hours later, six guys from the union showed up, and they were carrying bags and bags of presents.




I think a lot of people live on the borderline of racism. I work in a machine shop with about thirty older guys. I don’t think there is one bad guy in the group. You’d like them if you met them. All of them love their families. But I’d say that I’ve heard eighty percent of them make racist comments of some sort. A lot of the older guys drop ‘n bombs.’ But if a black guy walks up, they’ll be friendly. They’ll even go out to lunch with him and share a meal. I honestly don’t think they see themselves as racist. Every one of them will deny it. They’ll point to the black guy that they’re friendly with. They won't point to the things they say when he’s not around.




If I think back, I get depressed. If I think ahead, I get afraid.




I work at a machine tool automation company. We build the machines that build the cars. High school wasn’t for me. I didn’t respond well to being lectured and having things jammed into my brain. So I started out sweeping floors at the factory, then I got moved into the saw shop, and now I do electrical installation. I’m up to $17 an hour now. And I’ve started studying PLC so I can move up even further. There’s actually a lot of opportunity in my field. There's not much competition. Nobody my age wants to do this stuff. They all want to go to art school or make video games or something. I think maybe it’s because too many people are being told to do whatever they want. Because no matter what you think you can be, there’s still gotta be people like me.




My mom died of lung cancer on my sixteenth birthday. My birthday is actually coming up—this Saturday. Before she passed away, I was a good student and everything. I was probably going to get a scholarship for singing. But I stopped caring after that. My mom was my biggest fan. Even when she was really sick, she came to my singing recital in a wheelchair, with her hair falling out of her head, and she sat on the front row. I quit singing after she died. There was nobody to sing for anymore. My Dad raised us. And he was wonderful. You want to know how awesome my Dad is? He went to court and tried to legally change my birthday. Just so I wouldn’t have to go through it every year. It turns out you’re not allowed to do that. But he tried.




My sister moved in, her five cats moved in, and her ex-husband moved in. It’s driving me nuts. My sister watches those murder programs. And her ex-husband is Irish so he keeps talking about the potato famine. He loves that potato famine. Always the potato famine. And those cats. Little Louie is sweet, but the biggest cat looks like Garfield and won’t stop meowing. His name is Nitro. I’m trying to keep it together. I just picked up one of those positive thinking books.


I broke up with my girlfriend this morning. We’d been together for three years. But I’m Catholic, and she doesn’t know if she believes in God or not. I wanted to propose to her one day. I think she’d be a great mom and a great wife. But I feel like this might be something we can’t overcome. I want to get married in a Catholic church. I want to raise my children to be Catholic. It’s important to me and it's something that we’d have to deal with eventually. So I didn’t think it would be a good idea to keep putting it off. But it really hurts to lose her. Both of us were bawling our eyes out. She was such a big part of my life. Every time something good happens, she is the first person I want to tell. And I do respect that she refuses to believe in something just because I do. But I don’t know what to do. I’m hoping God will give me an answer.




Macomb County has made a lot of news lately. A northern suburb of Detroit, the county is largely ‘blue collar’ and its economy is heavily dependent upon the auto industry. Last week Macomb County voted decisively for Donald Trump. It was the first time in almost thirty years that a Republican presidential candidate has carried Macomb. Many pundits have pointed to this shift as representative of a greater movement among America’s white working class. For the next couple of weeks, I’ll be posting stories from Macomb County. I didn’t ask anyone who they voted for. Very few of the stories even touch on politics. And while the series cannot presume to be representative of an entire region, hopefully it will introduce you to a few of the people who live there.




Both my parents were Italian immigrants. We grew up in the Marlboro projects. My dad was a butcher. He was very ‘old country.’ I don’t think he once told me that he was proud of me. But it didn’t bother me. He taught me that you have to earn every single thing you get in life. On my twenty-fifth birthday, my Dad ran into one of my coworkers. I’d just been promoted to deputy foreman. They told him how great of a job I was doing. My dad came home, grabbed me by the neck, pulled me toward him, and kissed me on the forehead. There were tears in his eyes. He told me how proud he was of me. And that meant more to me than anything I’d done until then. It’ll probably be another twenty-five years before I hear it again.




I first ran for Congress in 1999, and I got beat. I just got whooped. I had been in the state legislature for a long time, I was in the minority party, I wasn’t getting a lot done, and I was away from my family and putting a lot of strain on Michelle. Then for me to run and lose that bad, I was thinking maybe this isn’t what I was cut out to do. I was forty years old, and I’d invested a lot of time and effort into something that didn’t seem to be working. But the thing that got me through that moment, and any other time that I’ve felt stuck, is to remind myself that it’s about the work. Because if you’re worrying about yourself—if you’re thinking: ‘Am I succeeding? Am I in the right position? Am I being appreciated?’ – then you’re going to end up feeling frustrated and stuck. But if you can keep it about the work, you’ll always have a path. There’s always something to be done.




I covered a lot of Trump rallies as a journalist. I didn’t feel any hatred. People were more curious than anything. I was never assaulted. I felt like most people were just supporting him because he wasn’t part of the establishment. Or because they were tired of politics. But it was confusing. Because even though I didn’t feel like they hated me, these people were supporting someone who said I should be banned from the country. Even the father of one of my best friends supports Trump. This man had me over to his house. I went to Thanksgiving with him. My friend asked him: ‘Dad, how can you support that man? Our friend Zahra is a Muslim.’ He told her: ‘Don’t worry. He won’t do everything that he says.’ Today has been difficult. These last few weeks, it was mostly speculation. There was suspicion that most Americans supported him but I could hope that it was wrong. But now that hope is gone. And I have to feel differently. I have to feel like maybe most Americans don’t want me here. And I feel like no matter how hard I try, I’ll never be part of the community. And even if they’re friendly to me, or if they invite me to Thanksgiving, deep down they believe that America is a country that belongs to white people.




I’m on a tour to study music with African roots. It’s not for school or anything. It’s just a personal project. I want to travel alone for an entire year with just clothes and my drumsticks. I’ve saved $6000 and I plan to work along the way. My first stop was New York. I’ve been here two weeks and I went to ten concerts. I’ve already spent $300 so I need to be more careful. I’m about to catch a bus for Detroit. I found a place where I can live in exchange for a few hours of daily work. Then I’m going to Chicago, St. Louis, Memphis, and New Orleans. Then Cuba. Then Brazil. Then Peru. And after that I’ll go home to France. I want to learn as much about music as possible. But that’s only half the reason for the trip. I also want to learn if I can do it. I am a little afraid that I’ll get lonely, but that’s something I want to figure out. I want to know if I can be alone.


Today in microfashion


Today in microfashion


I grew up, like, savage. My stepfather abused me starting at the age of four. My mother threw me out when I was fourteen. I became addicted to drugs. I fell in love with a drug dealer and we had a daughter. He hit me but I had nowhere else to go. I tried to get away from everything when I turned nineteen. I thought: ‘I’m leaving Puerto Rico and I’m going to change.’ But on the plane to New York, the guy next to me was a heroin user. And he convinced me to try it. And things got worse in New York. It was even harder because I was alone. I ended up in the street. I was jumping from house to house. I was doing what I had to do to survive, you know. The government took my children away. I was lost for so many years but I’m a new person now. I’m sober and I’m working and I’m going to church. But I struggle a lot. I have all these emotions and I don’t know where they come from. It’s like I can’t control them. And when I’m with other people, I feel less. My past always comes back to me. I say to myself: ‘Who do you think you are? You’ve done so many bad things. And you don’t even know how to talk right.’ I can never get away from the things that I’ve done. But Jesus forgives me, you know? He knows that I’m a sinner person and he still loves me. My past does not matter to him. He is changing my thinking. He is helping me start new. Without him, I would have nothing to hang onto.




I'm a woman and I'm Andrea and I'm living my dream."


The hardest part of first grade is "eleven plus eleven' because a lot of the class don't be knowing that.


Today marks a major milestone in the history of geriatric canine literature! The  book was released today. After months of breathless anticipation, scholars and critics agree: ‘Susie’s Senior Dogs has set a new high-water mark among books that have nice pictures and sweet stories about old dogs who find new homes.' The author, coincidentally, is my wife. She worked so hard to make this book perfect and it came out wonderfully. The book will warm the heart of every dog lover. Moby, Simon, and I are very proud of her. And Erin is using every penny that she makes to pay for the medical bills of old foster dogs so that they’re healthy and happy when they arrive at their new homes. The book only costs $15 human dollars. So please consider getting Susie's Senior Dogs for yourself or the dog lover in your life!Amazon:  Barnes and Noble: Indiebound:
The world doesn’t respond to me like it used to.  Throughout my life I had learned to anticipate a certain pattern of focus and friendliness.  And I never realized how much of that was based on my youth and physical appearance.  I thought it was because of my energy and personality.  But I’ve had to accept that a woman becomes less and less visible as she ages.  It begins to fade in your 40’s, and drops off in your 50’s.  You have a harder time holding people’s attention. The conversations become less about you, and more about the transaction.  It used to really bother me.  I would feel abandoned or ignored.  But I’ve grown out of it.  There’s a certain grace to letting go of the need for attention.  I was an actor for most of my life.  I was all about getting attention.  But now I’m working as a sign language interpreter, which I love.  Because it isn’t about me at all.
I was born in Venezuela.  I moved here two years ago.  I want to be President of Venezuela to change things and make better the world.  Did you know that sometimes in Venezuela people shoot each other on purpose?  I will change that.  Also there will be rules against pushing people or thinking bad thoughts about people.  I will make a rule so that there will not be too much cutting or killing of trees.  And there will be a rule against killing too many animals because animals eat insects, and we can’t have too many insects.  I will also make sure that we don’t waste water or food.  Or if there is food left over, we have to be sure to put it in the trash.  I can’t be president now because I’m only eight.  But I did skip first grade.
Today in microfashion.
A few years ago I had to have open-heart surgery.  When I got the news from my cardiologist, I went into full panic mode.  Suddenly there was nothing going on in the world except for my fear.  I thought that I was going to fall apart in front of my kids.  I ended up walking to the bookstore alone.  I was looking for anything that might help calm me down.  And I ended up grabbing The Power of Now.  It’s not an easy thing to describe in words, but that book taught me how to stay in the moment.  It taught me to step back and observe my thoughts, to label them as ‘thoughts,’ and to create a gap between myself and the ‘voice in my head.’  Once I realized that I am separate from my thoughts, it took away their power.  This photo was taken an hour before the surgery.  I’m with my grandson.  And there isn’t a fear in my mind.  I’m locked in that moment with him.


I smoked dope every day for twenty years. I thought I was pretty slick. I could smoke while working. I could get high and still run my company. I could pour concrete. I could roof a building. I felt like I could do anything. But it ruined my marriage. I didn’t even realize it until years after my wife left me. But the dope ruined my marriage because it made me content. Nothing could bother me. Her feelings didn’t bother me. Her needs didn’t bother me. The dope put an emotional cover over what should have been obvious. I told myself that if I didn’t see the problem, then it didn’t qualify as a problem. All I ever did was give her advice. I never asked for it. I never once felt the inspiration to say: ‘Darling, I know there’s something wrong. What can I do differently?’




I grew up on a farm in the panhandle of Texas. One day I was driving my father’s tractor, feeling sorry for myself, and trying to figure out what I was going to do with my life. I’d flunked out of law school. I couldn’t play football or tennis. The only thing I’d ever been good at was performing. In high school, I’d played the lead role in both the junior and senior plays. So I saved up enough money during the harvest season to buy a little red Yamaha motorcycle. Then I drove to Dallas so I could go into show business! I did some plays in Dallas, then I got a touring role in Fiddler on The Roof, then I rode my motorcycle to Hollywood to be a movie star! I got my first big role two months after I arrived. They paid me $500 a week for six weeks. I thought, Man! This is Hollywood!’ My character was a cowboy outlaw in a motorcycle gang. He ended up getting killed by a pitchfork while trying to rescue the leader’s girlfriend from a hippie commune. You know how I got the part? I walked into the audition and told them I’d do the whole part cross-eyed. Just like this. You know how hard it is to ride a motorcycle cross-eyed? Almost impossible. But I did it! Unfortunately it ended up being the worst reviewed movie ever made.




I don’t communicate my feelings. My entire family was like that. We’ve always sort of just swept things under the rug. I think that’s what makes me a good ER nurse. I don’t take things home with me. I can separate myself emotionally and just focus on what needs to be done. But it also makes me pretty bad at relationships. I met Gavin while traveling in Europe last year. We traveled together for two weeks, then he came home and met my family, and then we went to Mexico for a week. After that we talked every day. Gavin was the opposite of me. He was warm and happy and touchy. He’d even tell random strangers that they looked nice. But I pulled back the moment we got too close. Because I don’t like the feeling of being dependent on someone. Gavin was killed in a car crash at the end of January. He was alone in England and I didn’t even find out until days after it happened. I’ve tried to handle it like I always do. I try not to think about it or talk about it. But it’s not working so well this time. I’m taking things more personally at work. If a patient comes in the ER with similar injuries, I always ask myself: ‘What if this was Gavin?’




I wanted to be heavyweight champion. Joe Louis was my idol. Back in the forties, it was really something for a black person to have that kind of notoriety. He was the most popular black man alive. He made you feel like you could stand up for yourself. Protect yourself. I started training when I was seventeen. The first fight I had was with a Caucasian guy. It lasted less than a minute and a half. Two punches and he was down. It’s quite a feeling to knock somebody unconscious with your fists. To know you have that power. Who’s the person in the movie that everyone loves? It’s the one who wins the fight. The one who protects the woman. The one who protects himself.


Ten years ago I lost my job at a hotel.  Somebody bought the building and fired everybody.  I had four kids at home, and I went from $21/hour to $13/hour.  Nobody else would hire me.  Seventeen years in the hotel industry but apparently I didn’t even qualify to carry a suitcase.  I had to start parking cars at a garage.  Luckily I ended up getting this job with the city.  They started me at $12/hour but I’ve worked my way up to $30/hour.  But I don’t take things for granted anymore.  I used to dream about all the nice things I wanted.  I’m more cautious now.  I mainly think about protecting the things I need.  And I try to make myself irreplaceable.  I try to have perfect attendance.  Every time there’s extra training, I sign up.  Because the more you know, the more they need you.  All of us are replaceable, but I’m doing my best to make them need me as much as I need them.
We met at a swing dance class. For the next two months, we spent a lot of time together: we went out for drinks, went to music festivals, went for walks around town. But nothing was happening. Not even a kiss. It was driving me crazy. I was always on the phone with my friends, trying to figure this guy out. I thought I was being pretty obvious. Then one night I pulled out all the stops. I cooked him a five course meal, we drank a lot of wine, and we ended up on the couch together. But still nothing! I realized after I left that night that I probably should have kissed her. Something about the look on her face. But hey, I’m a modern guy. A woman can make the first move. Plus my last relationship had hurt me a lot. But I made up for it two nights later. We went out to an Italian restaurant for her birthday. And one of the waiters gave her a birthday kiss. Then suddenly four more waiters are giving her birthday kisses. And I’m feeling a little jealous. And I’m drinking a lot of champagne. Then after dinner we went out to a club. And ‘Promiscuous Girl’ comes on by Nelly Furtado. And I’d been practicing my swing dancing. So I twirled her around like this. And then boom.


In New York you have to focus so much on sustaining your lifestyle. There’s not much time left for other people. In the city things are expensive and your job is constantly being devalued. Fifteen years ago I could support myself as a freelance translator. Now that job is being outsourced or done online. So you have to always reinvent yourself. You have to focus so much energy on yourself. And it can be exhausting. Back in the Dominican Republic, there’s much more of an emphasis on community. People have time for each other. There isn’t as much wealth and people aren’t as focused on the acquisition of things. When I go back, people stop me on the street to say ‘hello.’ They ask about my family. We get together to have dinner. And I don’t mean ‘go out’ for dinner. I mean ‘get together.’ I bring the plantains. They bring the avocado. There’s a closeness. People focus on each other. But that can be asphyxiating. Because that means people are watching over your values and deeds. There’s a lot of judgment. There’s an expectation that you’ll live like your parents and peers. So yes, there can be lot of self-centeredness in New York. There’s not enough time to focus on the lives of others. But that’s why the world comes here to learn tolerance.




I want to empower women through dance. I think you can build confidence through movement. When a woman starts moving her body, and becomes comfortable with herself, and realizes that she can do the steps — it connects back to life. Because all of life is movement. Technically we’re dancing every day. And it doesn’t matter how you look. It matters how you move.




Ever since the twins were born, I’ve had a new urgency in terms of my art. I want to figure this all out so the girls can have a nice house and a nice childhood. Right now I make animations for commercials, but maybe one day I can sell a show idea. Or make a book. Before the twins were born, I used to wait around for inspiration. But I don’t have that luxury anymore. So I try to sit down and draw something every single day. I’ve learned that inspiration is kind of baloney, anyway. Ideas will come along if you do the work. This is a story idea that I’m working on. It’s kind of corny, but I want to make a book where my girls are the heroes. I call it "The Hoods' because they love to wear matching sweatshirts. Here they are stuck between a rock and a hard place.


I was never the best student. But luckily it’s a relationship driven world. I’m in sales. And it’s important to be knowledgeable, but my job is primarily to get clients to like me more than the next guy. All of our competitors sell very similar products. The differences between us are very small. So it comes down to one thing: ‘Who does the customer like more?’ And I want that to be me. But it's a lot of work. Relationships don’t just materialize. I’m always on my phone. I answer emails immediately. I send ‘thank you’ notes for everything. And if I ever read an article that reminds me of a conversation we had, I’m sending it along.




I was pregnant the first time he hit me. I found another woman in his house. And when I asked who she was, he got violent. He told me: ‘You are not my mother. You have no right to ask me about this.’ Then he hit me. And there was nothing I could do. That sort of behavior is accepted in Nigeria. Nobody is going to call it ‘domestic violence.’ If you tell the police, they will tell you to listen to your husband. But things are different in America. So I left my husband six months after we arrived. I entered a domestic violence shelter. I became a single mother. And I was doing fine. I was working as a security guard and my children were not suffering. But then one day my daughter called the police and told them that I hit her. But that is my right. A mother has the right to discipline her children. They were disobeying me. But the government took my children away and now they won’t give them back. They are oppressing me with their power.




I’d been harboring a crush on him since 5th grade. But I thought: ‘I’m gonna be in the friend zone for a long time.’ Because I’m normally not the kind of person who’s liked in that way. But I thought, ‘Go for it.’ So I started flirting. I’d say things like, ‘You look nice.’ Or ‘I like your hair.’ Then we started going to different high schools, so we started texting a lot. And every once in awhile I’d use a heart emoji. Or a kiss emoji. And if he ever had to dress in a suit, he’d send me a picture. So things were going well. Then one day I had an orthodontist appointment near his school and we decided to meet at Starbucks. After his mom dropped him off, we went on a walk by the stream. Then we sat on a bench. And I saw him flip a coin. So I thought he was bored. But right after, he gave me a kiss.




My father was a good man. He always had a job. He never drank. He never smoked. But my mother was never stable. We were evicted so many times. She spent all our money on drugs. When I was in sixth grade, she stabbed my father in the stomach with a butcher knife. I'll never forget that sound. It sounded like a suction cup. Then another time she threw lye on his face and his skin came off. But my father stayed through it all because he didn’t want us to be alone with her. I don’t tell my psychiatrist about my mother. I don’t want him to look at me like I’m her. I hate when people do that. Some people say I’m just like her. Because I get violent. I stabbed somebody too. But I’m not like her. Because I got help. I’ve been on Lithium, Xanax, everything. I love myself right now. But I don’t like myself when I’m not on my medicine. Because everyone pushes my buttons. Everything bothers me. I get evil.




I didn’t realize it was possible to be so proud of someone for rolling over.




I went to community college when I was twenty-one. I just had an epiphany that I wasn’t really doing anything with my life. I was staying out drinking until 4 AM every night. I was working retail. I was dating a guy who was a total douchebag. When I told him I wanted to go to college, he told me ‘Let’s be real. You’re never going to pass. Don’t waste your time.’ So at the beginning my whole motivation for going back to school was to prove people wrong. I went to all my classes. I turned in well-written papers, not bullshit ones. And it was hard, but I discovered that I liked the feeling of making good grades. So I started doing it for myself. And I never looked back. I remember taking an anthropology course that first year, and one of my assignments was to write a paper on New York City nightlife. I went to the same bar that I used to go to every night. Except I wasn’t drinking. I was just watching and taking notes. And I saw this girl my age playing beer pong, and she didn’t have a care in the world, and she was stumbling around, and she didn’t realize why the guys were being so nice to her, and she was probably spending money that she didn’t have. And I remember feeling so glad that I wasn’t that girl anymore.




It got to the point where I was stealing from stores, breaking into car windows. Everything but prostitution. I was living in the streets. Sometimes I wouldn’t shower for weeks at a time. Then one day I was walking down 149th by Lincoln Hospital, and I bumped into a drug counselor named Mr. Crespo. He took me to get some food. He gave me a few dollars. And he told me that I didn’t have to live like this anymore. I went to the methadone clinic the next day. And now I’m hooked on that instead of heroin. It’s a mixed blessing. At least it’s coming from a doctor and not a pusher. I always know where my next fix is coming from. I can work now. I can pay bills. I can be reliable and productive. It doesn’t get you high like heroin, but it takes away the urges. But it’s like liquid handcuffs because the withdrawals are just as bad. If I stop for twenty-four hours, it feels like fire in my bones. And they only give you one dose a time. So I get to the clinic every morning at 6 AM, and there are already one hundred people in line.




My friend and I were walking home from watching live music, and two police officers approached us. We weren’t being loud. We weren’t drunk. But they told my friend they needed to search him. They told us they were looking for a 5’10 black male, which happens to be the description of most men in this neighborhood. So that’s an excuse to search every black male who walks down the street. And that’s not right. My friend was a flight attendant. He had a college degree. He was wearing a button down collared shirt. He tried to ask, ‘Why?’ But I told him to be quiet. I told him to do as he was told. Because I didn’t want to escalate. I didn’t want the guns to come out. I didn’t want him to be another hashtag. So they emptied his pockets, they patted him down, and they let him go. And I was so mad afterward. Because I’m very pro-black. I go to protests. I’m in a black sorority. But in that moment I couldn’t speak, because I was too afraid of what might happen.




Your appearance is the first thing you say to somebody."




I’m artistically brokenhearted. I wanted to be a screen actor. I wanted to change the world through my sensitivity. But it was a very closed system in Italy. There are only like five movies per year. And there aren’t exactly auditions. You must be friends with the director to get a role. So I tried going to Britain. And that almost destroyed me. I was always cast as a foreigner. Usually I was a Mafioso, but I played all types of foreigners. I’ve been a Spanish waiter, a Turkish waiter, and a French waiter. And they were always making me wear a mustache. So I tried for America. I applied for an ‘extraordinary talent visa.’ It cost me $6,000. The application was the size of a book. I had to submit ten letters of recommendation to prove that I was extraordinary. What a scam that was. Nobody cares that I’m extraordinary. None of the television stations will audition people with this visa. Everyone wants to see a green card. I can only work on small productions. But things have gotten a little better. I’m getting some minor roles. I’m still playing gangsters. But sometimes I’m the funny gangster. Or the gangster with some sense. My next role is a scientist who turns into a zombie. In the movie, every stranger appears to be a zombie. But nobody is really a zombie. Strangers just seem like zombies. So, hey, there’s a moral message there.




A few months ago, my friend drowned in a swimming pool while I was with him. We were just hanging out. I was cooking for us. Then I stepped away to take a phone call, and when I came back, he was face down at the bottom of the pool. I was only gone for a few minutes. I don’t even know what happened. He never told me that he couldn’t swim. I tried CPR and he was still alive when the ambulance came. I prayed so hard. I called everyone I knew and asked them to pray. I called prayer lines. Everyone prayed for him at church. I was hoping that everything would be OK and that this could just be part of my testimony. I was hoping I could say: ‘I dedicated my life to God, and here’s what happened.’ But my friend passed away. He’d actually been dead the entire time I was praying. And it’s been so confusing for me. Because right before this happened, I’d been feeling so close to God. I was volunteering at church. I was going to midweek services. I was reading books. I was giving more of my money. I was partying less. I was trying to stay positive, and be mindful, and use less bad words. And I felt so close to God. I’d have conversations with him while standing on the subway platform. But it’s been hard lately. It’s hard to read my Bible verses. I’m scared to ask for anything. I say ‘thank you’ when I wake up every morning, but anything beyond that is very difficult.




Success feels like an aggressive act to me. It feels like I’m kicking someone in the shins. I’m about to get my masters degree, but the rest of my family is struggling to survive. My mom is a high school dropout. My twin brother committed suicide. Nobody in my family has money. So whenever I start to succeed, it feels like I’m putting myself on a pedestal and leaving them behind. It causes anxiety. I don’t like to feel better than them. So I usually self-sabotage and knock myself back down.




I quit drugs three years ago. I was in a desperate place. I knew I was doing the wrong thing but I still couldn’t stop. Then one morning my brother asked me to come to church with him, and I came to know God. I started crying when the preacher asked if anyone wanted to come forward. And I haven’t done drugs since. Not long after that I met my girlfriend on a dating website. And she’s changed my life completely. She’s got her shit together. She’s got a job, she owns property. She doesn’t quit. I want to be a different man because of her. I’ve actually got an interview with the MTA in three hours. I sent them my resume forty-seven times. I need the pension and benefits so we can have children. She tells me that I should be doing it for myself. I tell her: ‘I am doing it for myself, but because of us, and thanks to you.’


I have electrosensitivity. When I’m exposed to electricity, it’s like one thousand scorpions stinging me. It’s like every description of fire in the bible. There is no ‘off the grid.’ Because the grid is everywhere. So I live ‘between the grid.’ I have a lot of memorized safe spaces. I’ve tested all the stoops in the neighborhood, and this is an especially good one because it has a lot of wrought iron going into the ground. I wear seven layers of shielding clothes. I wear silver sterling boxers. I wear conductive socks. And nobody protects me because they think I’m imagining things. They think that they can decide how much I can take. Some people even point their cell phones at me. It’s like they’re punching me without punching me. Even after I explain the science, I get pigeonholed as crazy. The bigotry is maddening. Because even if I remove all my quantified evidence, and I say that I believe it hurts me; that should be fine. I have the right to choose how much radiation I’m exposed to.


I’m studying to be a counselor for battered and abused women. I haven’t had any actual cases yet because I’m still learning. But eventually I want to help abused women clearly understand the situation that they’re in. Seventy percent of cases go unreported. There are a lot of reasons that women don’t speak out. Some have low self-esteem and feel like they have no other options. Some are afraid. But a lot of women just genuinely love their partners, and they convince themselves that it’s ‘just a phase.’ They think that things will get better. There can be a lot of idealism involved. I work at a bridal salon now. At our shop, we never call women ‘customers.’ We always call them ‘brides.’ Because brides are special. Marriage is a dream come true. I can see it in the brides' faces when they try on their dresses. They feel like they’ve finally found their ‘happily ever after.’ And it can be hard to give up on that idea. Even if they’re being abused.




I grew up in a small town in North Carolina. Only five people in my graduating class even left the town. And I left but I haven’t done anything. I feel like: ‘Yah, I had this dream, but it was bullshit.’ And now there’s nothing to say about me. When people ask what I'm doing, there's nothing to say. Back when I was in college, I could say that I was a student. I was majoring in film and television. But now I’m just doing an internship and working at a grocery store. And it bothers me to tell people that. I’m actually afraid to meet new people. And I don’t know why. Because everyone who works with me is nice and educated and has dreams. And I don’t judge them for working at a grocery store. Yet it bothers me to tell people that about myself.




The first time I met Jack, I thought to myself: ‘Here’s a gay guy who’s not cynical, who’s not sarcastic, who enjoys life.’ He had so much energy. He was a fifth grade teacher and he’d always get so excited when he talked about his work. He’d produce these plays where he’d let the kids choose their own characters. He’d spend hours writing out their dialogue. And then I’d pretend to be one of the fathers and go sit in the audience. It was so fun. We had so much fun together. But the whole time we were dating, there was always part of me that thought I could do better. I was a fancy lawyer. Jack never seemed ‘cool enough’ for me. And so I left him for a gorgeous twenty-one year old. Jack and I remained friends. We even continued living together. But his therapist told him never to date me again. So he dated other people. And he got sick. Both of us got sick, but Jack was the one who died. And he might have lived if I hadn’t been such a bad person. If he'd been "enough' for me, he'd never have gotten HIV. The funny thing is I’d grown up thinking that I’d never be loved. Then a wonderful person loved me. And I left him to have sex with somebody who wasn’t a wonderful person. Jack died thirty years ago. I dream about him almost every night. It always feels good to see him alive. For a moment, I don't have to blame myself for his death. I usually ask him for forgiveness. And some nights he forgives me. But other nights he doesn’t.




I’m not Barack Obama. I’m not Bill Clinton. Both of them carry themselves with a naturalness that is very appealing to audiences. But I’m married to one and I’ve worked for the other, so I know how hard they work at being natural. It’s not something they just dial in. They work and they practice what they’re going to say. It's not that they're trying to be somebody else. But it's hard work to present yourself in the best possible way. You have to communicate in a way that people say: ‘OK, I get her.’ And that can be more difficult for a woman. Because who are your models? If you want to run for the Senate, or run for the Presidency, most of your role models are going to be men. And what works for them won’t work for you. Women are seen through a different lens. It’s not bad. It’s just a fact. It’s really quite funny. I’ll go to these events and there will be men speaking before me, and they’ll be pounding the message, and screaming about how we need to win the election. And people will love it. And I want to do the same thing. Because I care about this stuff. But I’ve learned that I can’t be quite so passionate in my presentation. I love to wave my arms, but apparently that’s a little bit scary to people. And I can’t yell too much. It comes across as ‘too loud’ or ‘too shrill’ or ‘too this’ or ‘too that.’ Which is funny, because I’m always convinced that the people in the front row are loving it.




I was taking a law school admissions test in a big classroom at Harvard. My friend and I were some of the only women in the room. I was feeling nervous. I was a senior in college. I wasn’t sure how well I’d do. And while we’re waiting for the exam to start, a group of men began to yell things like: ‘You don’t need to be here.’ And ‘There’s plenty else you can do.’ It turned into a real ‘pile on.’ One of them even said: ‘If you take my spot, I’ll get drafted, and I’ll go to Vietnam, and I'll die.’ And they weren’t kidding around. It was intense. It got very personal. But I couldn’t respond. I couldn’t afford to get distracted because I didn’t want to mess up the test. So I just kept looking down, hoping that the proctor would walk in the room. I know that I can be perceived as aloof or cold or unemotional. But I had to learn as a young woman to control my emotions. And that’s a hard path to walk. Because you need to protect yourself, you need to keep steady, but at the same time you don’t want to seem ‘walled off.’ And sometimes I think I come across more in the ‘walled off’ arena. And if I create that perception, then I take responsibility. I don’t view myself as cold or unemotional. And neither do my friends. And neither does my family. But if that sometimes is the perception I create, then I can’t blame people for thinking that.




It started getting really bad in ninth grade. Shaking hands became uncomfortable. I couldn’t touch money. I couldn’t eat with utensils if they had touched the table. Door knobs were the worst. Touching them felt like touching dog poop. It got to the point where I couldn’t even play bassoon, and that’s what I love the most. My bed became my only safe space. I’d stay in bed for a week at a time. I dropped out of school. Once I didn’t leave the house for an entire month. I got committed to a psychiatric hospital three different times, and honestly that was a relief. It was like an escape from existing. But I’m happy with where I am now. I’m on so many medications but I’m doing much better. I’m leaving the house twice a week. I just finished a bassoon lesson. I’m starting an internship soon. And I’m applying to music schools this fall.


We met in college.  He walked me home from school every day for five years.  We would talk about everything: how many kids we wanted, how we wanted to raise them, our roles in the home, where we wanted to live, and even where we wanted to go on vacation.  So there really haven’t been many surprises.  A lot of couples only seem to talk about important things if they’re forced to make big decisions.  And there can be this moment of: ‘I didn’t really know you.’  And there’s pressure to make a decision.  And that’s when the biggest arguments seem to happen.  We've luckily managed to avoid that because it’s all been discussed before.  We've been married for fifteen years but we still walk home together from work every night.  We're actually doing that right now.


I'm rebooting my life entirely, again. It's time for Andrew 5.0."




Every day seems like a new low. I’m currently going through a transition with housing. I’ve got issues with her father. I’m on my own for the first time. I don’t even know where we’re going to live. But she’s always trying to cheer me up. One time she drew a rainbow, and put it in the mailbox, and told me I had mail. When she saw me crying on Mother’s Day, she said: ‘I got you, Mommy. You’re the best Mommy ever and I’m always going to hold you down.’ And she learned this song from the show Yo Gabba Gabba. It goes: ‘If you try it, you’ll like it.’ So that’s what she says to me whenever I feel like I can’t get out of bed.


Very proud to announce that Principal Lopez, known in some circles as Nadia, has just published a book: The Bridge To Brilliance.  For those of you who followed her story last year, here’s an opportunity to learn more about her story.  In addition to describing her journey, she shares lessons that she’s learned while founding a middle school in one of the city’s most economically disadvantaged neighborhoods.  The New York Times called her book:  A valuable depiction of what it takes for principals and teachers to reach children in the most troubled communities.  Anyway, we’re proud of her.  If you’re interested in education, want to be inspired, or just want to support Principal Lopez, you can get her book here:
I'm going to first grade.  We're gonna do hard stuff."
I tried to make it as comfortable as possible for him.  We tried everything.  We went to every trial and appointment.  Larry really thought he was going to make it.  And I encouraged him as much as I could.  Even when he went blind.  Even when I had to carry him to the bathroom.  We still thought he was going to make it.  We were always moving forward.  Then one night we were lying in bed.  And I knew it was over.  He was covered in ulcers, and dehydrated, and emaciated.  And I told him that I loved him, and that we’d get through this, but at that moment I knew it was over.  Five days later he stopped breathing.  I never talked about Larry in our support groups, but my patients somehow found out what happened and a bunch of them came to the funeral.  So this is has always been more than professional to me.  I know about trauma.  And I know the treatment works.  Because I’ve been through it. 
This works feels very familiar. I ran an AIDS program for twenty years before I started working with veterans. Both jobs involve a highly stigmatized diagnosis. And both involve counseling people who have had a horrible, unexpected experience. I began working with AIDS during the 1980s. It seemed like we were losing an entire generation of gay men. We had no fucking idea what was happening. It was terrifying. The moment I shook a new client’s hand, I’d steel myself for his death. My clients never lived more than two years and I had 125 at a time. I tried to reassure them as much as I could. I tried to help them with their shame. But mainly I just tried to manage their terror. Our support groups could be gruesome. Participants would come in with IV poles and we were losing people every single week. Group members could look around the room and see the specter of their own future. It was horrifying. But they came anyway. They came every week because it was better than facing it alone. This work has always been more than professional to me. Because after work every single night, I’d go home to my partner, and care for him. Because he was dying too.
Trauma causes the brain to malfunction.  During a traumatic experience, memories cannot be processed correctly.  So a person with PTSD is still carrying those traumatic experiences around in their body.  Because those experiences were never filed away into the ‘past tense,’ the brain continues to operate as if the trauma is happening in the ‘present tense.’  It’s like a computer with a program that's running constantly in the background.  The idle is way too high.  And it’s an exhausting way to live.  So those memories need to be revisited and processed.  And we have an amazing way of doing that.  It’s called EMDR.  I won’t explain it here, but it works.  It takes away symptoms.  It won't turn you into a yogi who sits on the beach.  But it will take away panic attacks.  It will take away insomnia.  And it will take away suicidal idealizations.  We aren’t changing anyone.  But we are getting people back to their best self. 
PTSD results from an overactive sympathetic nervous system. It’s the same part of the brain that kept our ancestors alive when lions jumped out of the bushes. It’s ‘fight or flight.’ If a soldier’s mind stays in that mode for too long, it doesn’t always come back. Everyone expects veterans to return to normal when they come back home. The kids are so excited that Daddy’s back. Their spouse wants them to get a good job, and join the rotary, and save for a bigger house. But it’s only the veteran’s body that has returned to safety. Their nervous system is still living in a dangerous place. PTSD creates the feeling that something terrible is always around the corner. It can cause anxiety, confusion, and isolation from loved ones. But worst of all, it can make it seem like things will never get better. Most of my clients report a sense of foreshortened future. And that’s the first symptom I treat. Because the stakes could not be higher. Everything else can wait. First and foremost, we're a suicide prevention program.
I understand that it’s not sexy to talk about treatment. But the maddening thing about PTSD is that it’s completely fucking fixable. The narrative about it has got to change. PTSD is not Uncle Joe from Vietnam. It’s not homelessness. It’s not a heroin addiction. It’s not the end of the world and it’s certainly not suicide. PTSD is an anxiety disorder and we can treat it. But you’ve got to get help. In the military, you hear things like ‘shake it off’ or ‘rub dirt on it.’ And those are great messages for people at war. But you’re home now. You’re back with your families and the warrior mindset is no longer appropriate. If your nervous system is broken, it needs to be fixed. Just like a broken leg needs to be fixed. It’s that simple. You may have served with guys who don’t have issues that’s great for them. But that doesn’t mean they are stronger than you. It means they don’t have the same nervous system as you. It’s not weakness. It’s science. And it can be solved."
I went out for beers one night with my battalion commander, Colonel Willy Buhl. He really cared about us. He was one of those leaders who’d remember the name and birthday of every man in his battalion. So we’re sitting at the bar one night, and we’re talking about all the men we’d lost to suicide. A number of Marines from our battalion had killed themselves since we’d been home. And there had been an especially bad one recently. One of our guys had shot himself with his wife and kids downstairs. Colonel Buhl and I realized that there’d soon be a point in time when we’d lost more Marines to suicide than to enemy action. And I knew we had to do something. It’s an epidemic. Every veteran knows another veteran who’s taken their own life. We have to do better. So I approached a top psychiatrist and public health expert named Dr. Ann Beeder, and I asked her a question: Can we take all the friction out of the process of getting help? The Headstrong Project was our answer to that question. We wanted to create a treatment option with zero cost and zero bureaucracy, so that a veteran’s only challenge was showing up. All they have to do is overcome the stigma of PTSD.


The military is mostly filled with people who genuinely desire to do the right thing. More Marines receive the Medal of Honor for jumping on grenades than any other action. It’s a culture where officers eat last and everyone shares their water. These people grew up as boy scouts and girl scouts. The whole reason they volunteered was because they wanted to do the right thing. But the right thing is never clear in war. If you shoot too early, an innocent person gets killed. If you shoot too late, you lose a buddy. So a lot of our injuries are moral ones. Most of us come home feeling like we did something wrong. Or we didn’t give enough. Or that our friends gave too much. My best friend in the Marines was a guy named Ronnie Winchester. He was the nicest guy you can imagine. My 22nd birthday was during our officer training course. None of us had slept. We were all starving. We were only getting one ration per day. But Ronnie wanted to give me a memorable birthday. So he put a candle in his brownie and gave it to me. That’s how nice of a guy he was. Ronnie ended up getting killed in Iraq. And if a guy like Ronnie got killed, you can’t help but wonder why you deserve to be alive. Ronnie was 25 years old when he died. He is always going to be 25 years old. I have a wife and kids now. I get to grow old. But Ronnie Winchester is always going to be 25.




We like to say that God has a plan, but we just didn’t get to have a say in it. After the boys died, we dedicated our lives to encouraging young people to get help with depression. So many soldiers are afraid to seek help. They’re afraid to tell the Army. They’re afraid of what their fellow soldiers will think. We want them to know that it’s no different than asking for help with a broken arm. After the boys died, we never thought we’d be happy again. Carol felt suicidal herself. I felt guilty for even laughing. But happiness returned slowly. Our daughter Melanie is doing great. She’s a runner, and a swimmer, and a nurse. I ended up getting promoted to general on September 22nd—Jeffrey’s birthday. My boss engraved my sons’ names on each star. During the ceremony, while he was pinning the stars on my shoulders, he told me: ‘Kevin and Jeffrey will always be with you.’ When I became a general, I was allowed to select an aide. I interviewed eight people for the position. I chose a fantastic young man named Joe Quinn. And Joe is now my son-in-law. He ended up falling in love with Melanie, they got married, and we’re expecting our first grandchild in a month. We are just giddy about that. So ‘happy now’ is different than ‘happy then,’ but we do feel happiness again. ‘Happy now’ is Melanie and Joe. ‘Happy now’ is our future grandchild. And ‘happy now’ is a young soldier who hears Kevin’s story, and tells us that they got help.


I knew the moment Mark came home. The general was with him. That morning I’d seen on the Internet that two soldiers were killed in Iraq. I immediately walked into the bathroom, and Mark was shaving, and I asked him if he thought it could be Jeff. He told me: ‘No way. We’d know by now.’ So when Mark came back home a few hours later, I knew. I started finding pictures of the boys together, and spreading them out on the table. I kept thinking: ‘The boys are together, the boys are together, the boys are together.’ I think I freaked out General Valcourt. He probably thought I was crazy. But saying those words was the only thing holding me together. The boys had always been so close. They were best friends as well as brothers. They did everything together. They even joked that they’d build their houses together, and share a pool, and share a dog. After Kevin’s death, Jeffrey always told me: ‘Don’t worry Mom. He’s with me. I can feel it.’ All of us kept journals when Kevin died. The grief counselor recommended it. But Jeffrey was the only one who kept it up. He addressed every entry to Kevin. They shipped us Jeffrey’s journal when he died, and the last thing he’d written was: ‘I’ll be in touch.’


Jeffrey was set to deploy not long after Kevin’s death. I begged him not to go. I remember we went on a walk, and he said to me, in this real mature voice: ‘Dad, you know I have to go. My men need me.’ And I said: ‘Jeff. You don’t have to go. We need you here. Mom needs you, Melanie needs you, and I need you.’ But he insisted. I was a colonel at the time. And even though the father in me couldn’t understand, the soldier in me did. Jeffrey had to make his own path. He left for Iraq on Kevin’s birthday—November 15th, 2003. He was killed three months later. On that morning my boss was scheduled to leave on a trip. He was a two star general. We spent the morning together, then he told me ‘goodbye,’ and I assumed he left for the airport. But a few minutes later, I stepped into his office, and I found him standing alone in the dark. I said: ‘Sir, did you miss your plane?’ And he started walking toward me. And I knew. I knew when he took that first step. And he grabbed me, and he said: ‘Mark, it’s Jeff.’ And I said: ‘Is he hurt?’ And he told me: ‘Mark, he’s gone.’ And I said: ‘Are you sure?’ And he said: ‘I’ve known all morning. I verified three times.’ I thought ‘No, no, no, no, no. This can’t be. This isn’t possible. Not both of them.’


I lost my dad when I was eleven. So I know what it means to be sad. I just didn’t know that you could die from being too sad. Kevin called us the night before. He hadn’t been sleeping. He’d been up all night playing this game called Sim City, and he’d just beaten the game. He’d become a four star general or something, and his friends were so happy for him, but he sounded so sad. He said: ‘I did everything the world says is success, but it’s not all it’s cracked up to be.’ Then he quoted Henry David Thoreau that line about the masses living lives of quiet desperation. And he was crying. And I said: ‘Kevin, I’m so proud of you. I’d be proud of you even if you were digging ditches. If it’s the Army, drop out. I’ll pay back the scholarships.’ But he told me: ‘Dad, I can’t quit. It’s the soldier’s creed.’ So I just told him that I loved him. And that was the last time we spoke. We got a call the next night from Jeffrey. They were living together at the time. Jeffrey was hysterical. He said: ‘Dad. Kevin’s gone!’ I said: ‘What do you mean? Gone?’ And he said: ‘Kevin’s dead! He hung himself!’ And I just started screaming: ‘No! No! No!’ And I told Carol what happened. And she wasn’t crying. I remember feeling scared that she wasn’t crying. She just fell on the floor and started crawling to the living room. She was trying to get to her Bible. 
The Army was different back then. You have to remember, we had all those years of peace. For us it was swim meets and soccer games. Mark signed up to coach all the kids’ teams. He didn’t want to miss a moment with them. We had three children. Jeffrey was our oldest, then Kevin, then Melanie. Jeffrey was a leader like his Daddy. He wanted to build things. He erected tents in the living room. He slept in a sleeping bag. But Kevin was different. He was the tenderhearted one. He felt the pain of the world. I remember how shocked he was when he learned about slavery in school. He couldn’t even eat when he learned about the Holocaust. Jeffrey would always say: ‘Kevin! Stop thinking so much! Let’s go play soccer!’ But Kevin always felt like he had to figure out the world. He was our smart one. He wanted to be a doctor. He got two scholarships to college. He was the top cadet in ROTC. I knew that Kevin struggled with sadness. But I just gave him a bunch of Mom advice: ‘exercise more, ‘sleep more,’ ‘eat more vegetables.’ I tried to pray it away. I wrote letters to God, asking to lift Kevin’s ‘spirit of depression.’ And we didn’t tell anyone. I thought: ‘He’s doing so well in school. Don’t rock the boat.’ We kept it a secret. So I think we share in what happened.


We met in college. Mark had long hair and a beard. He was class president so there were posters of him hanging up around campus. He was really cool. I was kind of ‘not cool.’ I played saxophone in the band. I was a Christian. Neither of those things was very cool in the 70’s. I tried to impress Mark by participating in a blood drive that he was organizing. I ended up passing out and they had to wheel me out in front of the rest of the students. But we started dating eventually. Everything happened so fast after that. We got married when we were twenty-one. When he proposed, Mark told me: ‘I just want you to know that I probably won’t live long.’ His father had died of a heart attack at the age of thirty-one, so Mark was convinced that he'd die young too. Neither of us ever dreamed it was our boys we would lose.




We were built to think alike. Everything is so standardized in the military that you can function without thinking. If I ever needed night vision goggles, somebody could throw me their bag, and I’d know exactly what pocket to find them in. We were like cogs in a wheel. And that may sound like a bad thing—but it’s not. Nobody wants to think of themselves as cogs in a wheel, but humans love structure. Our behavior is predictive. All of us tend to be in the same place, at the same time, every single day. The tendency is just accelerated in the military. And it feels good. It feels good to know your place. It feels good to wear the same uniform. It feels good to know exactly what you’re contributing to the mission, to the team, and to the country as a whole. Your value is so clear. But then you come home and the lines are blurred. It's hard to discover that value again. You’re not sure where you fit. You’re not sure how you connect to other people. You’re not sure how to make a difference. It can be very isolating. And all you want to do is be back on a team.




I don’t feel good about it. It will bother me for the rest of my life and honestly I’m happy about that. I’m embarrassed by how little I knew. I was a kid from Texas. I flew on a plane for the first time when I went to boot camp. I had this visceral desire to seek vengeance for 9/11, and I believed our government when they told me that there was a connection to Iraq. So I fully supported the war. I thought we were bringing bad people to justice. I didn’t understand the nuances. I didn’t know anything about the people of Iraq, or the culture, or the country. And I feel ashamed about that. I’m getting my graduate degree in Middle Eastern history right now. And the more I learn, the worse I feel. I got so much personal benefit from being in the military. In many ways it was the greatest thing I’ve ever done. But I could have gotten those personal benefits from other means. I was in Iraq for one year. And the trauma of that year will impact me for the rest of my life. But for the people of Iraq, it’s been ten years. And they’re still being traumatized on a daily basis.


I have professors at Columbia who view me as a terrorist for fighting in Iraq.  But I believe that America is an example to be emulated, and I went over there to provide those people with basic human freedoms.  But when you get over there you realize that you’re fighting kids.  Everyone was kids.  You see it when they’re dead.  These weren’t the guys who were flying into towers.  These were kids who grew up poor, stepped into the wrong madrasa, and were manipulated by people with a shit load of money into executing somebody else’s worldview.  None of them came out of the womb hating.  None of them came out of the womb thinking anything else but holy shit this is a bright beautiful world.
In Afghanistan I spent so much time imagining what it would be like when I came home. I built up this perfect world. I imagined eating a big cheeseburger. And taking the longest shower. And meeting up with all my friends. Maybe we’d even take a trip to the beach just to catch up. And everything would be just like when I left. And people would be so happy to see me. Because they’d be thankful for the sacrifices that I made. But when my plane landed, nobody was there to meet me. My mom couldn’t afford to take off work. My father had died while I was gone. The rest of my family couldn’t afford to travel. One of the first things I did was visit the two friends who had written me letters. The whole time I was in Afghanistan, I only got four letters from two friends. So I had to visit them right away to tell them that those letters meant the world to me. But after those visits, I was pretty much by myself. So I sat in my room and I started thinking. I’d been so busy in Afghanistan. There was always a job to do. But now it was quiet. So I thought about all the things that I’d kept at bay. I thought about the little girl that I saved. And what her life is like now. And I wondered if she’s still alive. And if she is still alive, does she even want to be?


 I don’t think it’s possible to be a medic in a conflict zone and not have something stay with you. Something that you didn’t have before you went. I have the hardest time forgetting this little girl. She was brought to our post one day. Two men ran toward us carrying a bundle of blankets. And they’re yelling in Pashtu. And at first all I can see are these bloody blankets, but then I peel them back, and there’s this little girl inside. She stepped on a landmine while playing soccer and she’s gone below the knee, gone below the elbow, gone below the hand. And everything is seething. And I can smell the flesh. And she’s screaming. But I’m trained to drown it out. I’m trained so well that I almost don’t hear the screaming. I focus on our interventions. Stop the bleeding. Apply tourniquets. Administer the IV. I overdosed her on morphine. I’ll never forget that. I just kept pushing until the screaming stopped. And then a helicopter came and got her. And she lived. And I was fine throughout the whole thing. I was just like a robot. I’d been trained for chaotic situations. But they don’t train you for the aftermath. They don’t train you for when the helicopter has lifted off, and suddenly everything is quiet.


After I had the flashback that night, two of the guys on my team came up to me and said: ‘You’re getting help.’  I said: ‘No I’m not.’  And they said: ‘Yes you are.  Most of us do.’  And that finally convinced me.   I’d never gotten help because I never wanted to appear weak.  I’m the son of a man who lost his entire team in Vietnam.  I’ve been through some of the toughest training on earth.  I never quit anything in my life.  So it took me the longest time to admit that I had a problem.   Whenever I saw a homeless vet, or an alcoholic vet, I’d say: ‘That’s not me.  I’ve got a good job.  I’ve got a family.’   I did my best to cope with my issues through physical exertion.  I threw myself into work.  I’d go for long swims in the morning and long runs at night.  I thought if I never stopped moving, I could hold down my stress.  But it finally caught up with me.  And I broke down.  And those two guys convinced me to go to therapy.  And it was the best decision I’ve ever made.  I used to think that I was weak for needing help.  I realize now that my weakness was never getting it.
I kept having these nightmares of being trapped in a burning vehicle.  They were non-stop.  I’d wake up screaming and I couldn’t breath.   I wasn’t sleeping at all.   I was overworked and going through a horrible divorce.  At the time I was working as a medic on a SWAT team, and one night at work I had a really bad flashback.   We were about to serve a warrant.  All of us were in the back of a truck and it was completely dark because we were preserving our night vision.  And somebody turned on a red flashlight to adjust their equipment.  And I'm seeing our shadows on the wall, and suddenly I think we're in a helicopter.  And I’m trying to fight it but it seems so real.  I’m telling myself, ‘Keep it together.  Keep it together.’   I know it’s not real but I'm actually smelling the fuel and hearing the sounds of the turbine.  And then the back door opened.  And the next thing I know, I'm standing on the third floor of this building with no idea how I got there.  And that was the last raid I ever did.  We had a training session later that week.  Afterwards I closed myself in a van, put down my rifle, and started to cry.  I was stressed to the hilt.  The next day I started looking for help.
I was inside an armored carrier with my platoon commander.  He tried to open a pressurized fuel container and it sprayed across the vehicle and hit a camping stove that he was using to make hot chocolate.  It burst into flames.  He dropped the fuel canister and fire covered the floor.  Then he caught on fire.  He grabbed onto the exit hatch and wouldn’t let go.  I couldn’t pull him away.  And he wouldn’t let go.   And the vehicle is filling up with flames.  It was so fucking hot.  It’s like when your hand is on a stove except you can’t pull it away because it’s your whole body.  And it’s so bright and I can hear him screaming.  And the hood around my neck is shrinking and tightening.   And my Gore-Tex uniform is melting and spreading and falling off my body.   And I could feel myself burning and I couldn’t take it anymore.  I gave up.  I didn’t want to burn to death.  I decided to take a deep breath to singe my lungs and close my throat.  Then the hatch opened.   Someone heard us screaming and opened the hatch.
We celebrated my Dad’s 50th birthday two weeks before.  It was a surprise party.  I wanted to borrow Stephen’s truck to help pick people up from the airport, but he wouldn’t let me.  He tried to stop me in the driveway.  But I took it anyway because I’m the older sister.  He was livid.  That truck was his baby.  He ignored me for the entire party and we never spoke again.  My last conversation with my brother was a fight.  I can’t change that.  My mom said that Stephen called her during those last two weeks and forgave me for taking his truck.  But I think she’s just telling me that so I won’t feel so responsible.  I’m not saying that the fight caused his suicide.  But we could have talked it through.  We were eighteen months apart.  We used to drive to school together every single day.  If I hadn’t fought with him, he would have felt comfortable calling me.   And we could have talked it through.
Everyone who comes back from deployment fills out a form.  It’s a standard psychological evaluation.  It asks about drug use, sleeping habits, things like that.  We filed a Freedom of Information Act to see Stephen’s.   He checked a box that said he thought about suicide.  And they sent him home.  The counselor just scheduled a sleep study and sent him home.  And he hung himself with an electrical cord.  Stephen should have never been a soldier.  He was a happy, go-lucky guy.   We used to go camping all the time when we were little.  He disappeared from the campsite once and we found him in the woods with chipmunks in his hand.   He never wanted to hurt anything.   If there were ever ants in the house, he would take them outside.  He never told me about the war.  I don’t know how it affected him.  And I can’t say what caused his death.  Personally I think it was PTSD.  But his wife had recently left him.  He’d gotten demoted.  But it doesn’t matter.  He told them he thought about suicide.  He checked that box.  And they still sent him home.  So whether it’s right or wrong—I do blame them.  If someone says they are thinking of suicide, you need to listen.
He didn’t even tell me he was enlisting.  He called his dad one day and said: ‘Don’t tell Mom.’  I remember it was Halloween.  We were trick-or-treating with our grandson, and I noticed that my husband was walking ahead of me, whispering with my son-in-law.  When he finally told me, I supported his decision 100%.  I think it was a defense mechanism.  I focused on supporting him so I wouldn’t feel afraid.  I just didn’t want the military to change him.  I raised four children.  I knew how each of them was different.  Chris was the one who felt things the deepest.  He wanted to help people.  And I didn’t want him to see something that changed him forever.  That was my prayer every night.  Other moms in our town had sons who went to war.  I’d heard stories.  They told me that their sons had seen too much.  They just weren’t the same when they came home.  When Chris first got back from Afghanistan, I didn’t notice much difference.  He seemed to be spending less time with us, but he was recently married, so that seemed natural to me.  But one night he came over and asked us all to sit down at the kitchen table.  He said: ‘Mom and Dad, I want to tell you something.’  I thought he had cancer.  But he said: ‘I’ve been diagnosed with PTSD.’  When I heard those words, my heart sank.  I thought it meant forever.  I thought it meant a lifetime.  But he explained to us that he was getting treatment.  And that it was going away.  My husband is a retired police officer.  After Chris left, he said to me: ‘I’m so proud of him for talking about this stuff.  Because I never did.’
Sometimes my anxiety would get so bad that I’d turn completely white.  I’d shoot out of bed some nights, and my heart would be racing, and I’d start running around the room trying to find stuff.  My wife would have to physically put me back to bed.  Then one day I was taking a train out of Hoboken, and we were passing through these wetlands, and there were all these reeds, and it reminded me of Afghanistan.  And I looked down at my phone and there was a Facebook post commemorating the anniversary of the death of a guy in my company.  And I got dizzy and couldn’t talk.  I thought I was having a heart attack.  I just couldn’t take it anymore.  I had to get help.  I went to the emergency room at the VA and was diagnosed with PTSD.  Eventually I found my way to Headstrong Project.  At first I dreaded going to therapy.  I went through a treatment called EMDR.  My therapist would take me back to every point of trauma and have me describe it in detail.  It was like literally going back in time.  I could touch the faces of all the guys I’d lost.  I could talk to them.  We could talk about what happened.  And how we all knew the risks.  And how sometimes people died.  And it was nobody’s fault.  And I could apologize to them.  And when it was over I’d be completely exhausted.  And I’d feel like a bitch because I’d just cried for an hour.  But it worked.  The symptoms started to go away.  After a few sessions, I remember walking into my therapist’s office and saying: ‘This stuff actually works!’  And he said: ‘Yeah. It does.’
If you don’t do your job, people will die.’  That message was hammered into our heads during officer training.  Even if you tied your boots incorrectly, an officer might get in your face and scream:  ‘You don’t care about details!  Details get people killed in combat!  You’re going to get people killed!’  Over and over, it was drilled into me that people would die if I messed up.  And nine of my guys died.  So it’s been extremely hard to forgive myself.  Maybe I didn’t work hard enough.  Maybe I didn’t set high enough standards.  Maybe I didn’t put enough stress on the importance of details.  The first guy in my company who died stepped on a bomb that was hidden under a footbridge.  That was a rule.  That was a detail.  We were never supposed to walk over footbridges.  He knew that.  Maybe I didn’t tell him enough times.  I can see his face right now.  If he was sitting here, I’d say: ‘Mike.  You weren’t supposed to do that.  You know you weren’t supposed to that!’
I was in charge of 250 Marines during my second deployment. We were assigned to a district called Sangin. Most of Afghanistan’s poppy was grown there, and the heroin it produced funded the Taliban’s war effort. We didn’t have a clear mission. Our job was to establish a ‘presence.’ We were supposed to make the Taliban as uncomfortable as possible. Our mission wasn’t to take any hills or to kill a certain number of enemy combatants. And that lack of clarity could be frustrating. Guys were getting killed but we had no concrete ways to measure our gains. The best I could do was tell them that our mission was to ‘make Sangin a better place.’ Every day I’d send them on patrols. I’d sit in a small mud room, square like this, with maps on the walls and a radio on the table. And the patrols would call back if they needed support. Some days it was chaos in that room. Multiple patrols would come under fire at the same time and they’d all be calling at once. We lost nine guys over those six months. Dozens more lost arms or legs. Others had serious gunshot wounds. I remember sitting on an ammo canister the day before we left, with my head between my knees, wondering if we’d done anything at all. And a village elder came up to the gates of our base. He wanted to thank us for making the area safe enough so that his village could finally return to their homes. That was the only tangible difference that I’d seen in six months. It was the ray of light I needed.


Many of you remember Sara from the Pediatric Cancer series last month.  I’m very sorry to report that shortly after her story was published, Sara’s cancer returned very aggressively.  Yesterday morning she passed away.  I’d like to honor her by reposting her story, and allowing Sara to be remembered by her own words:

My biggest worry is that I’m going to die and not do all the things I wanted to do. The funny thing is—I didn’t even realize how many things I wanted to do until I got diagnosed. Simple things like meeting a guy, getting married, getting a job, having my own apartment, and even picking out my own furniture. Those never seemed too interesting to me. They just seemed like adult things that were guaranteed to happen. Now I want to do them so bad. Because I want to know what they feel like.
It wasn’t every second of every day.  But sometimes I’d get this boiling feeling like there was mercury in my blood.  And it would rise up into my head and I’d get so angry it was like I was going to explode. And all I could think of was worst-case scenarios.  And it felt like there was no way out.  I’d work myself into such a frenzy that I thought there was only one way to eliminate that feeling.  And I’ve already lost seven veterans that I know to suicide.  Two of them were very close to me.  These were educated guys.  And they seemed happy.  You’d meet them, and think: ‘These guys are so great.’  And I knew if it could happen to them it could happen to me. So I came here and I started unpacking this shit.  It was a lot of work.  The therapist just guides the conversation.  You have to dig up stuff you thought you’d packed away forever.  And you have to answer questions that you never answered.  It’s exhausting to go that deep.  But it works.  I feel like I’m in control again.  I know my triggers.  I don’t flip out.  I don’t send inappropriate emails at work when I feel slighted.  I still have bad days but I’m in control again.   I was afraid therapy would cause me to lose my edge.  That didn’t happen.  It made me stronger.  It’s like gym for the mind.  And I don’t want to lose one more veteran.  That's why I'm telling my story right now.  I don’t want anyone to be afraid to look under the hood.  Therapy is like Men’s Wearhouse: ‘Give it a try.  You’ll like the way you look.  I guarantee it.’
All we wanted to know was who the bad guys were.  But nobody knew.   We were getting picked off one by one and we couldn’t find the bad guys.  Some guy who was helping you during the day might kill you at night.  The enemy didn’t wear uniforms.  Far more innocent people got hurt than anyone else.  It wasn’t malicious.  It was just legitimately confusing situations.  When you’re driving to a meeting and a car bomb explodes, suddenly every car looks like a bomb.  And you’re surrounded by cars.  And anybody could have a suicide vest.  And you’re surrounded by people.  It was threat overload.  And it was mentally exhausting.  One day we were driving to a small village to pick up a young Iraqi boy.  We were going to fly him to the US for a rare heart surgery.  And I’m in the back of the convoy doing rear security.  And this woman in a burqa starts walking toward me.  And I’m shouting in Arabic for her to stop, but she keeps coming.  And I can see she’s carrying something.  She’s clutching something inside her burqa.  And she won’t stop.  And I keep trying to wave her away.  I’m screaming at her and pointing my gun but she keeps coming closer.   And I’m thinking that I have to kill her because she has a bomb.  I have to do it.  And I switch off my safety, and I’m just about to pull the trigger, and suddenly she opens up her burqa.  And there’s a baby inside.
We got called out one day to assist a fuel convoy that was being pinned down by gunfire.  They had stopped along an open field, and were taking fire from a tree line about 200 meters away.  When we arrived, I noticed a small truck about 50 meters out.  It had stopped on a farm road running along the field.  There were legs hanging out of it.  I was acting medic for the platoon so I went to investigate.  And they’re obviously not combatants.  It’s this family of six.  I guess they’d been driving toward the convoy and somebody got scared and shot them up.   It’s just a mom and a dad and four kids.  And there’s this unique, awful smell when your guts open up.  And everyone’s dead except the father and this eight-year-old girl who’d been shot twice in the chest.  And she’s crying.  And this wasn’t what I came for.  I thought we were here to kill bad guys.
I never thought Iraq was a good idea.  I thought it was a stupid war.  I remember getting into an argument with my Dad about it.  But the war started, so it became a question: ‘What am I going to do about it?’  Was my best choice to stay in Cambridge and hold up a protest sign?  Or was it to deploy and try to create a better outcome for the guys who were going to war no matter what?  It’s complicated. Did I kill people?  If I did, you paid me to do it.  You didn’t have to pay your taxes.  Our military may have fought the war, but our whole society went to war.  All of us were part of what happened.
You see this really fucking horrible stuff.  You see guys blown to bits.  You see dogs eating people.  And the whole time there’s this little voice in your head that says: ‘That’s not normal, that’s not normal.’  And the longer you stay in that place, the quieter the voice gets.  That voice is like your anchor.   If it gets too quiet, it’s hard to come back.  If I’d stayed in Fallujah for two years, maybe I’d be fucked up.  But I left after a month.  The experience profoundly affected me.  But it doesn’t haunt me.  I don’t think I’m sick.  I’ve had complete strangers tell me that I’m in denial.  There’s this tendency to pathologize the entire war experience.  And recently ‘PTSD’ has become a catch-all to describe every veteran with a mental illness.  I’m just not comfortable with that trend.  A lot of good Marines have PTSD.  But a lot of us don’t.
The 2nd Battle of Fallujah began on November 8th, 2004.  The plan basically called for the entire 1st Marine Division to form a giant line and advance through Fallujah from north to south.  The city was overrun with insurgents.  My company commander ordered the platoon that I led to establish a forward position.  Forty-six of us snuck across a highway at 3 AM to seize a building 150 meters in front of everyone else.  It was a candy store.  The guys were excited at first because the place was filled with chips and soda.  And we were starving and thirsty.  But all hell broke loose when the sun came up.  RPG’s started slamming into the side of the building.  We could see guys in black sneaking up all around us.  My platoon sergeant was shot through the helmet and knocked unconscious.  Another of our guys got shot in the femoral artery and his blood covered the floors.  And we couldn’t get out.  Every exit was dialed in with machine gun fire.  You couldn’t even poke your head out.   We were pinned down all day.  And suddenly my company commander is on the radio saying that we’ve got to advance.  And I’m shouting into the radio over the gunfire that we're probably going to die if we leave the store.  I’m shouting so loud and for so long that I lost my voice for four days.  But he’s saying that we have no choice.   He’s being pressured by his commanders, all the way up to the generals.  And the generals are being pressured by the White House.  And all my guys are looking at me because they know if I lose that argument, we're going out there.  And I lose the argument.  And I tell them that we have to go.  But instead of running out the door, we piled a bunch of explosives on the back wall, and we blew it out.  And we ran.  And everyone survived.  Twenty-five guys were wounded, but everyone survived.  A lot of that was luck.  And a lot of that was our platoon and how good those guys were.  But I also feel that my decisions mattered that day. And if I had decided not to serve, and stayed home, it could've ended much worse. So no, I don't have any regrets about going to Iraq.
My brother went to Harvard.  He’s ‘Good Will Hunting’ smart.   I lived with him in Cambridge for a while, and I visited the campus chapel, and up on the walls they had the names of every Harvard man who’s died in war.  The list was so long for World War I and World War II.  It went all the way to the ceiling.  But the list got thinner and thinner as time passed.  The best and the brightest didn’t show up for Vietnam.   And I understand.  I get that it was an unpopular war.  But they chose to not show up and there was a consequence for that.  There were leadership failures.  Standards were lowered and people were killed because of bad decisions.  The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan were going to happen whether I chose to participate or not.  I was a fortunate son of this country.  I had a good family.  I went to a private school.  I graduated from a great college.  A lot of the guys who served under me didn’t have those advantages.  They relied on me to make tough decisions in dangerous situations.  And I’m glad I was there to make those decisions.
I know guys who look back on the war as the best time in their lives.  They’d love to go back.  They only see themselves as a soldier and I want more for them than that.  I want them to be OK with being home and finding new and better ways to be themselves.  What happened to being a good person?   Or being the best version of yourself?  I think at the end of the day, everyone just wants to feel good about what they did.  And so do I.  But I don’t.  I don’t want to wave the flag and say we killed those motherfuckers.  I don’t want to be thanked for my service.   I don’t think it made anything better and I don’t think we won any hearts or minds.  For a long time after I got back, I isolated myself in a cabin and drank all the time.  Then at one point I decided that I was going to try everything possible to feel better.  I was going to try acupuncture, chiropracty, therapy, and if nothing worked, I was going to kill myself.  Recently I’ve been experimenting with femininity.  I’ve never been feminine.  My father put me in mixed martial arts when I was nine.  I became a blackbelt and a kickboxer.  I was always the tough chick.  Now I’m trying to go in the opposite direction.  I'm being very cliche about it.  I’m doing yoga.  I’m wearing dresses everyday.  I’m wearing make-up.  I even joined a woman’s group.  Every month we have a sacred circle on the new moon and do guided meditations, set intentions, and eat chocolate.  God, this is harder to talk about then bombs.
We had a company commander in Iraq—let’s call him Captain Johnson.  He was in charge of all the medics.  He set the rosters, scheduled the convoys, and coordinated with other units.  He was also fucking his secretary but that’s less important.  We were nine months into our deployment, and Captain Johnson decides to go out on a convoy with us one night.  That wasn’t his job.  His job was to stay inside his office.  But that night he decided that he wanted to go.  And during the convoy one of the trucks hits an IED.  And guys are screaming ‘go, go, go’ over the radio, and we’re trying to push through the hot spot, and small arms fire keeps bouncing off our vehicles: ‘plink, plink, plink.’  It sounded just like the opening scene in Saving Private Ryan.  I hate that movie because they got that sound so perfect.   And as soon as we were out of the area, Captain Johnson has us stop on Samarra Bridge to repair the vehicle.  And it was so stupid to stop there.  Because that bridge was getting blown up every other week.  And we’re sitting on that bridge, pointing our M-16’s into the dark, and people are whispering ‘do you hear that?’ And we almost shoot at our own infantry because we don’t know it’s them.  And I asked Captain Johnson why he came with us.  And he told me: ‘I have two sons at home.  I need stories to tell them.’  And I hated him so much in that moment.  Because I didn’t want this shit.  When I signed up, they told me I’d be working in a hospital.  I wanted to be safe, but I wasn’t allowed to be.  But he had a choice, and he chose not to be.  Just because he wanted war stories.
I didn’t fit in too well in training.  I came back from drinking one night and I was three minutes after curfew.  My senior drill sergeant told me that he was going to punish me because a few medics had noticed I was late.  So I asked him: ‘Do you decide what kind of leader you are based on who’s watching?’  He didn’t like that.  He screamed at me and made me do a bunch of pushups, and me being a drunk-ass, I was calling him a ‘pussy’ and ‘motherfucker’ the entire time.   So he reported me to the company commander, who reported me to the battalion commander, and I end up at this formal hearing where they make me listen to all this awful shit about myself.   And then they asked me if I had anything to say.  I’m pretty sure that I was supposed to keep quiet, but I had typed out this whole speech about how my senior drill sergeant didn’t embody Army values.  So I read my speech, and when I finished, everyone was pretty mad.  A command sergeant major started screaming in my face.   He looked like Clint Eastwood if Clint Eastwood was only five feet tall.  After he was done yelling, he ripped my insignia off my uniform, escorted me from the room, and with a mix of disgust and pride, said: ‘You’ve some got balls.’
It’s the most embarrassing thing a grown man can experience.  It’s like having a nightmare while awake.  It happened not long after I’d moved to New York City.  I’d been isolating myself a lot after I came back from Iraq.   I was on edge all the time and I got nervous in crowds.  So one day I decided that I was going to try to step outside my comfort zone and drive to the Queens Center Mall.  And I was parking my car in the lot, and this traditionally dressed Muslim man starts walking behind me, and suddenly I was back in Iraq, and I started to get nervous.  So I walked quickly into the mall and I start hearing the sound of 50-caliber machine guns all around me, and it’s getting louder and louder, and I know that nobody else is hearing it but I swear to fucking God it’s real.  And the voices around me grew louder and suddenly I can’t remember where I am.  And I walked outside and started hugging this aluminum lamppost, and I tried to call my girlfriend because I didn’t know how to get home, and it felt like the world was closing in on me and I wanted to die.  I wanted to kill myself.  It was the only way I knew how to end this.  I had to get help.  I lost a whole line of mentors to suicide and I didn’t want it to be me too.  Maybe some guys can come home from war and go back to mowing their lawn or fixing their gutters good on them.  But I had to get help.  It took a lot of therapy to release this self-torment.  It took a lot of therapy to stop hearing those 50-calibers.  And therapy is the only reason I can talk about these things today.  Because I’m finally starting to get through it.
There was an old man who fished in the same spot every single day. He’d stand on the edge of a canal coming off the Tigris.  We told him it was a bad idea.  He sat on a village council, and he always voted with the coalition, so we told him it was a bad idea to fish in the same place every day.  But he was seventy years old so he wouldn’t listen to anyone.  And one day this fifteen-year-old kid rides by on a scooter and drops a bomb behind him.  And I get called out to investigate the crime scene.  My job is to take pictures, ask questions, things like that.  And I get there right as the sun is going down.  And a truck is lighting up the scene with its headlights.  And the air smells like an old duffle bag.  And I kneel down next to the crater and I start to take out my bag and I just freeze.  The hole is filled with dusty, coagulated blood.  And parts of this guy are floating in the canal.  And it looks like somebody has thrown Smucker’s jelly all over the wall.  And I just froze up.  I couldn’t do it.  I wasn’t supposed to be seeing this.  I was an art student.  I loved the human body.  I always thought it was so beautiful.  And not in a horny or freaky or weird way just in a beautiful way.  I used to watch my sister dance ballet.   I saw her dance in the Nutcracker five times.  I loved seeing all these beautiful things that the human form could do.  I always honored the human body.  And now I’ve come to a place where the human body is shredded and stomped and blown to bits.  And that just wasn’t me.  I used to be jokey.  I used to be goofy.  I was Frank from North Scranton.  And now I won’t ever be that again.
We were based out of the Baghdad Airport.  I drove armored Humvees.  Mainly we transported detainees between the airport and the Green Zone.  The road was known as ‘Route Irish.’  We called it the eight-minute heart attack.  A lot of times there was sniper fire and almost every day an IED would explode.  We’d drive through traffic as fast as we could.  Sometimes it was like parting The Red Sea.  We’d clear our way through traffic by pointing our rifles at drivers and waving them off the road.  You can understand why they resented us.  Imagine that happening on the streets of New York.  I’ll never forget the looks we’d get.  I’ve never seen that sort of hate.  My worst day was when we had to transport this really bad prisoner to the hospital.  He was 6’5 and completely shackled up because he’d beaten up six of our guys.  When we got to the hospital I was ordered to guard his room.  The hospital was tiny.  Just a few rooms.  And this truck pulled up with Australian troops.  They’d been hit by an IED and were covered in blood.  And they’re being carried right in front of my face.  And the first guy is dead.  And the second guy has no leg and he’s spilling blood all over the floor.  And the doctors and nurses are slipping around like penguins.  And they’re carrying this guy’s leg in a garbage bag.  And I can’t leave.  I’m gripping this rosary that my girlfriend’s mom gave me, and I’m praying for this guy to live, and he’s bleeding out and dying in front of me.  And what’s the point of prayer anyway if God brought me here to watch this sick shit.  And behind me is this huge madman that I’m supposed to be guarding.  And I’m trying not to cry and I’m not allowed to move.  I was trapped.  It’s like somebody was holding my head and forcing me to watch hell.  And in front of me, this Iraqi janitor is mopping up the blood.  And he’s smiling.  He’s fucking smiling.
I was assigned to my father’s platoon.  He worried that people would think I was getting preferential treatment so he put on a serious show.  I got volunteered and ‘voluntold’ to do everything.  He’d make me clean the shitters and the slop sinks and then at night we’d ride home together.  I saw a new side of him.  I'd always known him as my father.  But now I was seeing him in a leadership position where he was respected by a large group of people.  While we were training, he always told us to be ready for war, but we thought: ‘whatever.’  The running joke was that the Cub Scouts would get deployed before the National Guard.  But in 04’ we got our deployment notice for Iraq.  They told my father that he couldn't come with us because he'd just turned sixty.  It really killed him.  He begged the colonel, and then the general, but everyone said "no.'  He followed us right to the door of the plane, and he was crying his eyes out, and he kept saluting us as the plane pulled away.  He stood there until the ground crew made him leave.
My father was a platoon sergeant in the Pennsylvania National Guard.  But nobody ever thought I’d join the military.  I was too sensitive.  I was into painting and illustration and theater.  Plus I was a total goofball.  I barely finished high school.  I didn’t have any direction.  I got fired from TCBY for giving out too much ice cream.  You’re supposed to scoop a certain amount every time and I was just scooping all I could.  So nobody thought I’d join the military. But one day I walked into our living room and there was a kid sitting on our couch.  My father was giving him advice about joining the military.  This kid was a grade below me, and I barely knew him, but my father’s hand was on his shoulder.  And I suddenly felt this territorial feeling.  Like he had a connection with my dad that should have been mine.  And I wanted that too.  So I decided to enlist.
For the next couple weeks I’ll be partnering with Headstrong Project to tell the stories of American veterans from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.  As with any group, there will be a wide range of viewpoints and experiences.  There are often conflicting feelings: patriotism, disillusionment, pride, regret, gratitude, and grief.  There is a common love for America, yet differing ideas about what exactly that means.  Many of these stories will include PTSD, but the hardships of returning veterans are far too nuanced for a single diagnosis.  And it can be inappropriate to use PTSD as a catch-all for those hardships.  So we’ve chosen to title the series ‘Invisible Wounds.’  I know that many people have strong opinions about America’s involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan.  But as we meet the individuals behind the uniforms, and seek to understand their stories, I’m hoping we can momentarily put those politics aside.  This is a great group of people who served and sacrificed at the request of their country.  And I’m very thankful that they’ve volunteered to share their stories.
I’ve always lived off my artwork all my life.  I’ve lived all over the world.  I’ve had fourteen common law wives.  I’ve never needed money because I’m talented.  Talent is better than money because it’s always with you.  Let me give you an example.  Back in 1970 I was getting dinner with a Japanese model at the Sao Paulo Hilton in Brazil.  This guy from Texas was sitting at the table next to me, and he’s trying to order a steak, but he keeps sending it back to the kitchen.  He keeps saying: ‘The steaks are better in Texas.’  After the second time he sends it back, the master chef comes out, and I hear him say in Portuguese: ‘I’m going to kill this man!’  Now being a Galician myself, I know the character of the Latin American people.  If a French person says he’s going to kill you, you don’t have to worry.  The French are lovers and all lovers are cowards.  Trust me—several of my former wives are French.  I know this.  But when a Latin American tells you that he’s going to kill you, it’s time to leave.  So I walked over to the man’s table and bought him a bottle of wine, and I talked with him about Texas.  I knew all about Texas because I competed in fishing tournaments there.  After a few minutes of talking, I tell the man: ‘If you order one more steak, you’re going to get killed with a machete.’  So he took my advice and he left.  The entire restaurant staff came out and started singing to me with tambourines.  They brought out free wine and a full spread.  They said, ‘Your money is no good here.’  The Japanese model was so impressed.  See what I mean?  Talent.
I drove an eighteen-wheeler for fifteen years.  One day I hit a lady in a Honda Civic.  I hadn’t seen her at all.  I just thought I’d blown a tire.  Luckily nobody was hurt, but I realized my vision was starting to go.  I’ve been blind in my left eye for about seven years now.  It’s been really hard on my self-esteem.  I used to be very outgoing and would talk to anyone.  Now when I first meet somebody new, it’s like they don’t know where to look.  Their eyes go back and forth.  Sometimes they’ll just look straight at the ground or off in the distance.  My friends tell me that I’m the only one that cares about it.  They tell me that I worry about it more than anyone else.  But then I wonder if they’re just telling me that to make me feel better.
I got divorced twenty-five years ago.  He had an affair.  He left me with two small kids.  It took a lot of time and a lot of years, but I’m OK with it now.  For the sake of my kids, I made the decision to be OK with it.  He’s married to the woman now.  And we all get together as a family.  It’s still not easy for me.  I spent Mother’s Day at their stepmother’s house.  That was weird.  But I don’t want my kids to worry about hurting my feelings every time they spend a holiday with him.  I don’t want them to feel like they need to have two separate celebration dinners for every birthday, or when they graduate from college, or get married.  My daughter just had a baby, so we’re actually all in town together right now.  There have been some complications so everyone is supporting her.  I haven’t forgotten what happened twenty-five years ago, but for times like this, I need to be OK with it.
I grew up in Kosovo.  Over ninety percent of the population was Albanian, but Serbia controlled everything.  They controlled the police.  They controlled the government.  They shut down the only Albanian TV station.  All our documents and road signs were in Cyrillic.  If you wanted to go to school, you basically had to become a Serbian.  You had to speak their language and learn their history.  So all of us went to illegal schools in private homes.  My school only had four rooms.  It was our way of staying Albanian.
Ten years ago I was the subject of a documentary called ‘No Impact Man.’ It was about my attempt to live for an entire year with as little environmental impact as possible.  My family rode bikes everywhere.  We used no paper products.  And the film got quite a lot of attention.  I wasn’t used to the success.  I’d written two history books before then.  And they were good books, but they didn’t have much of a readership.  Now all of the sudden I was being interviewed, and celebrated, and invited on Good Morning America.  And then people started attacking me.  Gawker wrote several articles calling me self-righteous, and an opportunist, and said I was imposing my values on my family.  People said I didn’t care about the environment and only wanted to make money.  And all the attention really caused a crisis for me.  For the first time, I had a personhood that was completely different than my person.  And that was exhausting.  When someone called me a hero, I wanted to prove them right.  When someone called me a devil, I wanted to prove them wrong.  It took a lot of self-examination to realize that I was neither.  There is a fullness to a person that is gigantic and nuanced and indefinable.  It was equally impossible to be a hero or a devil.  I couldn’t be contained by a single word.
I work as an investigator for the Legal Aid Society.  We provide legal defense to people who can’t afford it.  I studied law in college, but I’m learning that the system doesn’t match up to what we were taught.  According to theory, the defendant should always have the advantage.  Our clients are supposed to be innocent until proven guilty.  The burden of proof lies with the prosecutor.  But that’s only in theory.  In reality, the District Attorneys bend the rules of the system to gain maximum leverage.  They don’t care about justice well, I’m sure there are some that do but the ones I’ve seen only care about winning.  It’s an elected position, so they want to show voters that they are ‘tough on crime.’  And that requires higher incarceration rates.  So they are incentivized to convict as many people as possible.  One of their favorite weapons is to overcharge.  They’ll charge a defendant with ten things.  Nine of them would easily get thrown out in court, but the client just can’t risk it.  So they’ll plead guilty to the one charge that even remotely applies to the case.  We’re representing one client who passed out on the subway.  It’s a simple public intoxication charge.  But his beer bottle fell off his seat and broke, so they charged him with possession of a weapon.  They know it’s ridiculous.  But they know he’ll never go to trial with that charge on the table.  So they’ll get their conviction.  And that’s all that matters.
We can talk until my dog is done pooping."
I’ve been out of art school for a couple years now.  Eventually I’d like to make a living as a fine artist.  I try to challenge myself in a different way every day.  I’m always trying different colors, or different materials, or different styles of drawing.  It's my way of leveling up.  Right now I’m seeing if I can touch the paper only once with each mark, yet still create enough information to convey light and shade.  The hope is that by challenging myself enough, I can eventually reach a level where I can challenge the art world.
I was a bartender."
I was a drunk."
My father was a fascist.  He was trained to be a terrorist in Mussolini’s army.  He was anti-everybody.  The Irish were ‘micks,’ black people were ‘niggers,’ and Jewish people were ‘kikes.’  His main weapon was pain.  He raped me, locked me in closets, beat me with broom handles.  He sent me to the hospital many times.  He'd threaten to blow my brains out in the middle of the street.  I absorbed a lot of his emotional energy.  Sometimes his voice still comes out of me.  When I’m really angry, and cussing myself out, I sound just like him.  It’s him inside me, speaking to me.  But I didn’t become him.  My grandfather saved me.  My grandmother was a fascist like my father.  She counted her rosary beads and condemned the world, but my grandfather was a simple man.  He lived with us.  He always told me: ‘Your father is a nut.’  He hugged me and kissed me.  I swung between two extremes: the love of my grandfather and the hate of my father.  My grandfather knew how to love.  My father couldn’t love because he was too filled with terror.  He didn’t have the tools to love.  Once when I was fifteen, I walked over to my father and gave him a big hug.  He kept his arms stiff by his side.  I said ‘I love you Dad,’ and his body started trembling.  There was a terrified child inside of him.  He wanted to love.  And he wanted to be loved.  He just didn’t know how.
It was the summer between 8th and 9th grade.  We were make-out buddies.  Sometimes he’d talk to me during the day.  Other times he wouldn’t.  We were in his basement late one night, getting drunk, and he kept asking me if I wanted to do it.  My heart was racing and I was terrified.  I kept saying: ‘maybe,’ ‘maybe,’ ‘maybe.’  Then he said: ‘No more maybes.  Let’s flip a coin.’  My stomach sank.  After we finished, he said: ‘I think I heard my dad upstairs.  You need to leave.’   I went home and filled up a whole page in my journal.  I wrote in purple sharpie, over and over: ‘It didn’t happen.’  For the longest time I felt like it was my fault for feeling hurt.  Like I was being overly sensitive.  It took five years for me to realize that consent is not a coin flip.
I sliced the tendons in my finger while trying to cut away some waterproofing.  I’d taken a few pain pills before, but I’d never been handed hundreds of them.  Eventually I was taking twenty pills a day.  I was going through a divorce at the time so I was pretty unstable.  Back then you could ‘doctor shop:’ run one prescription through insurance, pay cash for two more.  After three years I went to a treatment center and they put me on something called Suboxone.  It took me four years to get off that stuff.  The withdrawals were terrible.  It’s almost as bad as the pain pills.  And get this—the same people making the pain pills are making Suboxone.  They sell you drugs to get off their drugs.  It’s all a money game.  Listen, it was my choice to take the pills.  I know it was my fault.  But somebody out there made a lot of money off my weakness.
I volunteered to be a background actor for a friend’s film last night.  We were supposed to be celebrating an engagement on a rooftop.  There was a guy on set who was making drinks, and so you know, I was willing to make a sacrifice for art, so I had four pina coladas, two vodka cranberries, a few beers, and this one drink that was just rum and crushed up watermelons.  I had a couple of those.  Then afterwards we went to a comedy club because the tickets were free.  All you had to do was buy a couple drinks.  This probably makes me sound like an alcoholic but don’t worry I was hydrating.  And you should have seen my friend.  She was way more drunk than me.  We didn’t end up getting home until 2:30 AM.  I did have a voice in my head reminding me I have to wake up for work in the morning.  I’m just really good at shushing that voice.
You’re encased in a disastrous matrix of fear and loathing.  You’re just a function.  You’re just a function of the universe.  You think you’re free.  You have no more freedom than a cell on your body.  The universe isn’t a democracy.  It’s a monarchy.  You’re just a function.  The closest you can get to freedom is anonymity.  Fame is the worst prison of them all.  Because then people have ideas about you and ideas about your life.  And if you’re not what they expect then they will fuck you up.  Kanye West is the biggest prisoner on this planet.  Your only chance at freedom is to stay on the fringes like me.  Burn all your bridges.  Who cares?  You’re all lying to each other.  You all hate each other more than you love each other.
My parents brought me from Guatemala when I was fourteen.  Immigration wasn’t as big of a deal back in the 70’s.  When I got to New York, I joined a soccer team with players from ten different countries.  And you could just go to work and nobody asked any questions.  My mother worked as a housekeeper at the Hilton for forty years.  I was lucky.  I didn’t have too hard of a time.  I got to come over on a plane.  But today it’s different.  Right now, as we speak, people are hiding in bushes by the border.  They’re running through deserts and swimming across rivers just to feed their families.  I feel very bad for them.  Things are very tough for the Latino immigrant.  But it’s our turn.  The last one to arrive has to pay for the broken dishes.  You’ve got to blame somebody for the problems.  It’s been like that since the first Thanksgiving.  First it was the Irish, then the Polish, then the Italians.  When the war came it was the Japanese.  It’s just our turn.  I’ve considered myself an American since I was born.  I was born in Central America so that makes me an American—you guys even try to claim the name!  I love the Yankees, the Giants, and the Mets.  But it’s not too important what you call me.  I’m just Louis, from Guatemala, living in New York.  And I’m the luckiest guy alive.
I’m just trying to make people’s lives a little bit weirder.  During the week I’m a supervisor at an insurance company.  I’ve got to hide my identity because I have four people working under me.  I think it would be hard to hold the team together if they saw me like this.
We met on a hike 25 years ago.  He made the first move.  He asked if he could help me up a hill."


I come from the small country of Gabon. It used to be the Switzerland of Africa. There are only 1.5 million people there. It has some of the largest oil reserves in the world. It is top ten in iron supplies, uranium supplies, manganese supplies—you name it. And it has the most beautiful rainforest. The country is so wealthy but the people are so poor. There is no clean water. People’s lives are defined by the search for bread. There is no education. And most teenagers have HIV. And when you get sick in Gabon, you die. I have goose bumps right now because my mother still lives there. The people are dying, yet the ruling family flies around in private jets. They give speeches at the UN and people clap. The president’s wife wears handbags that cost $25,000. The ruling family has been in power for 50 years and they get richer and richer every minute. And do you know why they’re in power? Do you know why they’re so rich? Because they hand over our natural resources to the French.




The War In Chechnya was going on during the time I was in law school. I remember watching a news report where a young boy walked up to a journalist and asked for help waking up his grandfather. The grandfather had just been killed by a bomb. I decided then that I’d be a human rights lawyer. I went to work at the United Nations. I pictured myself drafting stronger human rights laws. I thought I’d meet with heads of state and convince them to form better laws and better institutions. And those meetings did happen. I did my research and made my presentations. You should have seen me— I was so passionate and confident and sure of my reasoning. The leaders would nod their heads, and say ‘thank you very much,’ but then nothing would change. Unless there was an economic benefit, nobody cared about protecting children, or empowering women, or stopping genocide. And it wore me down. My colleagues were worn down too. After ten years I had to quit. Last week I opened this bar. It’s not human rights, but at least now I can drink for free.


We both know this could become one of those iconic photos.  This could be one of those photos that they study one day: ‘Pretty Handsome Brother On The Corner With Obama Phone and $150 Watch.’  And we both know that if I wasn’t so statuesque, this photo never would have happened.  You are about to get famous off Mr. Bradley.  Now I don’t mind.  I don’t mind if white, black, or purple people prosper.  But when this picture sells for $10 million, you come back and find me.  Cause I’m gonna need one-tenth of that.


We’re the worst terrorists in the world and it was a long time coming. This entire country was built on the slaughter of innocents. And we got what we deserved. Just look at the history of US involvement in the Middle East. All those countries are artificial. We created those countries like plastic after the fall of the Ottoman Empire. And the only way to rule a plastic country is with a dictator. Assad, Hussein, the Shah—we propped them all up. Decades of torture, murder, and oppression. We sponsored it. So I say it whenever I can. I’ve had people threaten to kill me. I’ve had people threaten to rape my children. But I’ll keep saying it. You can call me a monster. I think the people in those towers died as representatives for the rest of us for our crimes against humanity. Not only do I think that 9/11 was deserved. I think it was one of the greatest events in human history.


I’m a probate lawyer.  I represent people who contest their parents' wills.  I want to write a book about all the things I’ve seen.  It’s not quite The Soprano’s, but it’s close.  My colleague likes to say that contested wills are the final battleground of a dysfunctional family.  Everything from childhood gets brought to the surface.  You’d be amazed how long people can hold grudges.  And probate court is their last chance to get revenge for ‘Mom loving you more.’  The crazy thing is how many clients would rather be right than be happy.  It’s almost always smartest to settle.  It costs both sides more to fight it out than to make a deal.  Yet people still choose to spend all their time and money, just to get a judgment from the court that will prove they’re right one final time.


My daughter just graduated from junior high, so I'm going to my first Demi Lovato concert tonight. It's her and Nick Jonas. They have a big hit right now. I'm not sure what it's called but I've heard it a million times in the car."


There are thousands of people like me. I saw them every time I went to the racetrack. Miserable motherfuckers, all of them. Always looking for the next big score that never comes. Always nervous and depressed. It’s a very bad addiction. I never drank. I never did any drugs. But I couldn’t stop gambling. I bet on thousands of horses in my life. The more you win, the more you bet, until you lose it all again. It was the same routine everyday. I spent every morning looking for enough money to get on the subway and get to the racetrack. I did menial jobs. I sold things on the streets: shirts, belts, t-shirts, sweaters. For fifty years I did this. A lot of times I didn’t have a place to live. At least I never committed any crimes. I know a lot of guys who did. It’s a real fucking curse.




The Korean American community is very tight-knit. From the outside it can sometimes look like inwardness or selfishness, but it’s primarily based on survival. When you’re an immigrant, feeding your children and paying your rent comes before integrating with society. And the support to do those things normally comes from within the community. For Korean Americans, the community mainly revolves around the church. Korean immigrants will go to church even if they aren’t religious. Because that’s where the community is. It’s where people speak their language. It’s where they can find information, and a network, and jobs, and people to cook them meals when they’re sick. It can sometimes seem like an unwillingness to integrate. But the closeness of the community is really about trying to survive. -James is the Executive Director of the  in Flushing Queens, which seeks to educate and organize marginalized members of the Korean American community.


I want to YouTube about my life.  I’ll call my channel Happy Is Always The Answer.   It will be a popular channel because I’m the only crazy kid in my house.  I do a lot of hyper things that people will love like running and swimming and going on adventures.  I’ll go everywhere and show people the Statue of Liberty and gardens that I find and other things they haven’t seen.  I’ll probably have some paranormal videos too.


We don’t have any hobbies. But we do try to get together a few times a month to judge people and complain about things.




We weren’t poor or street. I came from a really good family. I had good examples all around me. My mother worked hard. My grandmother worked hard. I was an honor roll student at a military academy. I even graduated college with a degree in African American Studies. But I had already gotten into crack by the time I graduated, and things went downhill pretty fast. I lost jobs. I lost marriages. I went to rehab so many times. It took me twenty years to quit. But the whole time I battled my addiction, at least I had something positive to look back on. I had knowledge of myself before everything turned negative. And I think that’s why I was finally able to quit. I had a positive place to go back to. For a lot of the addicts I knew, there was nothing but negative behind them.




I'm going to be a lawyer like Daddy. I talk a lot so I'll be great at it. All you have to do is keep talking until you win."




You can’t be humble about what you deserve in this city. I had to learn that the hard way. I came here with a small island mentality. In Puerto Rico, you take what you can get, and if someone sees that you are struggling, they will help you. Not here. If you are running a business, people will step on you until you break. We first started selling coffee at street fairs. The organizers were charging us $600 per day to rent a spot. It was impossible to sell that much coffee. They knew we were losing money. They knew we were suffering. But they told us there was nothing they could do—that was the fee. Then we learned that the people next to us were paying $300. When we threatened to leave, they lowered our rent to $125. And at first they told us they couldn’t go any lower! That’s what I mean. The organizers didn’t care what was a fair price. They cared about getting the biggest share they could. You can’t wait to be given anything in this city. If you want something, you have to demand it by its name.


I just pitched my first full softball game in our office league!  We lost by one run.  I was nervous the entire time but I made it all the way through.  I thought we had one inning left but we didn’t.  So we lost.   But don’t say ‘lost.’  That sounds bad.  Say that we ‘almost won.’  Say that we ‘almost won against the best team in the league.’  I want to thank the captain Chip for believing in me and letting me pitch.  I didn’t think he’d let me pitch because we lost 18-2 the last time I pitched.  But he let me pitch because Dan was on vacation.  Chip is so great.  And I want to thank Cindy for cheering me on.  Every time I missed the plate she’d say: ‘Great job, Rosemary!  Keep confusing them!’  I love Cindy so much.  And Elvin and Jo and Kyle.  I couldn’t have ‘almost won’ without them.  It's so fun to be part of a team.  I love them so much.


I grew up in the projects and got involved in drugs early. I committed a stupid ass robbery when I was seventeen and ended up being charged as an adult. I got out of prison when I was twenty. I worked a minimum wage job for awhile, then I found a Korean shop in the garment district that was making counterfeit clothes. They would put any label I wanted on them. I could buy jeans for $15 and bring them up to Harlem, and I’d go to the pool hall and sell them to the Jamaicans and Dominicans for $25. I know it wasn’t exactly legal. But I finally felt like I was making an honest living. Especially compared to my past. I was working hard. Things were going well. I probably sold two thousand jeans that first year. But three days before Christmas I got robbed. Three kids ambushed me. I’d been out working all day. I was tired. My fingers were cold. And I didn’t want to hand over the money. So they shot me in the stomach. I was so angry. I felt so violated. I’d made that money by working hard and they’d taken it from me. I could feel the old Gerald coming back. I wanted to kill them. I went looking for them after I got out of the hospital. I walked the streets with my colonoscopy bag. I was so close to being pulled back to my past. But eventually the anger subsided and I went back to work. I even stopped with the counterfeit clothes and sold my own designs. I didn’t want to go back to prison. Prison didn’t correct me, but it did check me. The old Gerald is always there. Just a little bit. Like when I’m feeling desperate and I’m mad that I still can’t afford to get my mom out of the projects. But I always keep him in check. I saw too many guys in prison who were there for life. And I love life too much to be them. I want to go bungee jumping one day. I want to go fishing.


We lived across the street from each other. He was so shy that I didn't even think he spoke English.  One night I heard a car idling outside for over an hour.  I went to see what was going on, and I found him passed out drunk in his car.  So not exactly love at first sight but it grew from there."
Bill Cunningham may have taken over a million photographs in his life.  Nobody catalogued New York City’s inhabitants as devotedly or extensively as Mr. Cunningham.  His work will always remain a massive monument to the city.  But his biggest impact on me will always be his joy.  True joy seems to subside with age.  There is happiness in every stage of life, but giddiness seems to belong to the young.  Mr. Cunningham remained a young man until he passed away yesterday.  When I watched him work, I always kept my eyes on his smile.  It was always there.  And it held the secret to life.  Bill Cunningham discovered what he loved, he did it every day, and he was joyous until the end.  He figured it all out.  And he pointed the way for the rest of us.


I lost some of my mojo. I don’t know how it happened. I had mojo in college. I had mojo in grad school. I was studying Real Estate Development at NYU, and I remember feeling like there was nothing that I couldn’t do. I felt so powerful. Back then somebody asked me how much money I thought I could make, and I remember saying ’40 million.’ But something’s changed. Life beat me up a little bit. And these days I’m wondering if I have what it takes to put together a single deal. I’m not sure exactly how it happened. But somewhere along the way, all my confidence got replaced by questions. Are you smart enough? Do you have enough resources? Who are you fooling? But I’m going to start changing the narrative. I’m taking this as a sign from the universe that I’ve got to get my mojo back.




I finished Pre-K. The best part was playing and having friends. The worst part was doing work because that's boring."




She committed suicide a week prior to our thirtieth anniversary. Our oldest daughter had died of leukemia a couple years earlier. Holly took it extra hard. We drifted apart. We’d parse our words. Nothing was natural anymore: ‘Do we talk this way?’ ‘Do we laugh at this moment?’ ‘ Do we even have a right to laugh?’ But I still thought we were doing OK. Things weren’t like they used to be. But I still thought things were OK. We rented a hotel room for our thirtieth anniversary. I was supposed to meet her there after work. She overdosed on pills before I got there. I don’t know why she did it that way. She said in her note that she wasn’t angry, but I don’t know why she did it that way. I fell apart. I started drinking a lot and doing cocaine. I lost my job. One day I was giving a presentation after being up all night on drugs, and I just started hallucinating. I thought one of the clients was Holly. I stopped the presentation and started calling her name. The company was nice about it. They gave me a nice severance package. But I gave all the money to my kids. I’ve been on the streets ever since. It’s been eight years. My kids have tried to give me the money back but I won’t take it. I ride the subways at night. If it’s warm enough, I sleep on a bench. I read a little. I write a little. I go to the soup line in the morning. I’m just existing. I wasn’t a good husband. I wasn’t a good father. And now I’m doing penance.




My husband and I have been trying to adopt a child from foster care for six years. The process is unbelievably difficult. There’s a reason people choose to adopt from foreign countries. Right now I’m waiting on my son to finish his ballet performance. He came from an orphanage in Guatemala. Can you imagine how different his life would be if we hadn’t adopted him? So this time we tried to adopt in America. We’ve inquired on 530 cases in five years. We’ve reached the final round several times, but each time we’re not chosen. Once it seemed like we were finally on the brink of adopting five siblings. We spent so much time with them. We were bonded with them. But at the last moment, the top administrator vetoed our case. No reason was given. He thought we ‘weren’t a good fit.’ We were devastated. I still have their pictures. We’re good parents. We have six grown children and two who still live with us. Everyone is doing well. There’s no reason we shouldn’t be able to adopt. Everything moves so slowly because the bureaucracy is overloaded and underfunded. These kids have no money so they have no voice. I’m in a support group on Facebook full of people like me. Everyone is agonizing over the reasons that they aren’t being matched: too old, too many children, not enough children, not enough money. The guesses are endless. In the meantime there are 100,000 kids in this country who are waiting for a family.


Gram died right before Mother’s Day last year.  She grew up in Georgia and spent most of her childhood working in the cotton fields.  She dropped out of school after seventh grade.  She moved North with her family and started working in a button factory.  My mom was her only child.  They both almost died during childbirth.  Gram raised Mom all by herself, and after we were born, she helped raise us too.  My friends called her Diva Miss Eva.  She’d roll down the window of her Oldsmobile to tell people to pull up their pants.  And she loved pink.  We took this picture on the day my mom graduated from community college.  It was in the middle of June.  It was so hot.  But Gram comes outside in a pink evening gown, mink fur, and evening gloves.  We told her it was too hot but she said: ‘My baby’s graduating!’  She loved this photo.  She put it in a frame and hung it above her pink bed.  In her pink room.


I got a job at Great Adventure in 1974—the first year it opened. I dressed like a barbarian. It was OK. But then I found some costumes that nobody else wanted to wear. They had been designed for the trampoline artists in the arena show. But they hated them. So I tried one on. And the rest is history.




I’d say twelve is the normal age when a kid around here comes outside alone for the first time. That’s when the trouble starts. When you’re fresh outside and nobody’s telling you what to do. My mom kept me inside until I was fourteen. Both my brothers had been to juvenile, so she was more strict with me. I got arrested four times that first year. Probably four times the next year too. I never went to The Island, but my mom kept having to pick me up from the precinct. They called it ‘Disorderly Conduct,’ but it was almost always for fighting. A group of kids would walk by from another block, and they’re staring, and somebody yells out: ‘What are you looking at?’ And believe it or not that’s all it takes. One little sentence. Everybody wants the pride of saying they didn’t back down. I could have chosen not to participate. But it’s hard to avoid. Imagine if one hundred people around you are smoking cigarettes. Nine times out of ten, you’re going to start smoking.


Every week I get one dollar for allowance.  Then I get to choose the section where I put my dollar.  There are four sections: spend, save, donate, and invest.  If I put a dollar in the ‘invest section,' my parents give me two extra pennies at the end of every month.  I’ve only used my "spend section' twice!  I have way over $10 in my 'invest section.'  I used to have more but I took some money out and put it in my 'donate section.'  We used to it to buy food for people who don’t have much money in their 'spend section.'


Your friendships shrink as you get older—unless you have a loose definition of friendship. I used to work with one of the richest guys in Philadelphia. He was seventy years old. He could have dinner with anybody in the city. But those aren’t the types of friends I’m talking about. I mean the people who really know you. I think it’s amplified for me because I’m still single. My friends have gotten married and had kids. They have less and less time to give. More and more people have come into their lives. But the amount of people in my life has stayed the same. I’ll text them to see if they want to go to a Phillies game. And I always get an immediate ‘yes.’ But something always comes up right before the game. They have to reschedule because ‘Ethan’s friend is having a birthday party,’ or ‘Sarah has a soccer game.’ It’s hard to not feel left out. I used to see these guys several times a week. Now it’s five or six times per year.


The more contact I have with people, the better I feel: eye contact, a smile, I’ll take anything. The moment somebody makes any kind of overture, I’m heading their way. So many people ask for my photograph. I always say ‘yes.’ It’s thrilling. Aren’t we lucky? We’re so lucky to be here. This street is so full of sweetness and people. I love this street so much because it leads to the park. I can smell it. Look at that beautiful dog over there!




There’s a strange culture in medicine. People are less friendly to each other than I imagined. I got an MD and a PhD in Neuroscience. I’m finishing my residency right now. I guess I thought that everyone would be compassionate, and would help each other, and would be nice to each other. And don’t get me wrong—I work with a lot of compassionate people. But the stress just erodes people. There’s a lot of tension and anger. We’re taught that 80 hours per week is normal and shouldn’t be questioned. But at the same time, a huge amount of work that medical interns do is administrative. It could be outsourced without affecting the quality of education or care. And the culture does real harm. I’ve had two friends commit suicide. One of them was studying anesthesiology at Yale and overdosed in a parking lot. The other jumped off the dorm building at NYU. There’s got to be a better way. I don’t know, maybe I’m just saying this because I’m stressed. I'm heading to the ER now. I’m almost at the end of my residency. I can see the end of the tunnel. But the tunnel is very damaging.


It’s hard to raise a kid anywhere, but especially in the city.  There’s just so much coming at you all the time.  Look at this—we have one little dirt patch to play ball.  And I have to be a navy seal just to get him to Randall’s Island on the weekend for his baseball games.  It’s a lot of stress.  He was born right before my job started going downhill.  I’d just lost everything in my first divorce.  I wasn’t hitting my numbers at work and nobody wanted to hear any excuses.  I was getting pissed off at everybody.  It got so bad one day that I grabbed his arm really hard.  It was like a giant wave of stress just broke on top of me.  It was summer and he wasn’t listening and he was acting crazy and I was trying to put together a sales pitch and it was the end of the month and bills were due and I just lost it.  It was a wake up call.  I had to learn to compartmentalize the stress.  I’m better now.  I’m a lot more present.  I just wish I’d been this way with his older brother.


Both my husband and I work in retail. I’ve worked for eighteen years at the Macy’s on 34th street. I wake up at 5:30 every morning, make the kids breakfast, and get them to school by 7:30. Then I go to work for six hours, then take my son to therapy, and pick up my daughter from dance practice. We catch the nineteen bus to the two train, and ride it to the last stop. We’re normally home by seven so I have time to eat dinner before going to sleep at nine. I’m busting my hump for these kids. My parents were from the Dominican Republic. My dad only finished the third grade. He’d always tell me to finish school, but it never really went beyond words. He never helped me with my homework. He was always working and he just didn’t know any better. So I’m making sure that I’m involved with everything. I go to the open houses, the meetings, and all the school functions. I’m busting my hump so they won’t have to.
I was raped by my cousin when I was seven.  He was a teenager.  We were sleeping in the same bed when it happened.  I could have run away but I didn’t.   Why didn’t I stop it?  Does that mean I kind of liked it?  Is that why I didn’t tell anyone?  It got even more confusing when I grew up and realized I was gay.
I was in a fraternity when I was in college.  We’d always try to be funny and shoot each other down.  And I never really stopped being that way.  I’ve been sarcastic my whole life.  I always had something witty to say.  I didn’t care whose feelings got hurt as long as I got a good laugh.  I didn’t care much about maintaining relationships.  It was ‘take it or leave it.’  But I got lung cancer recently, and nobody came to visit me when I was in the hospital.  That really got me thinking.  I don’t take my relationships for granted anymore.  I’m much more careful with my words now.  I don’t want to upset anybody.  I listen a lot more.  I try to appreciate everyone who takes the time to speak to me.
When you’re four you can do awesome tricks.  You can do a tumble and a cartwheel.  Actually I can’t do a cartwheel, but my sister can do that.  She’s five years old and likes to play with me but I haven’t met her and I don’t know her name because she’s imaginary.  She likes to fly.  Her job is so save the day every time the bad guys try to steal the word.  She is friends with Water Girl, and Fire Girl, and Wind Girl, and Shark Girl.  Shark Girl has the power of sharks.  She can save the world every single time.  All she has to do is put out her hands and think really hard about sharks.
I’m trying to not always require obedience even though it might be helpful in the moment.  I was raised with obedience first and everything else second.  We were supposed to always stand still.  We weren’t to be seen or heard in the presence of adults.  My mom was a single mother in a tough neighborhood, so in her mind, obedience meant safety.  It’s what she felt she had to do.  She only spoke to us in directions.  And that caused me to grow up not really knowing what I wanted for myself.  I’d even look to other people to tell me what I wanted.  So I’m trying to raise her with a bit more independence.  I want her to be creative and have freedom of movement.  If that means running in circles, or jumping up and down while she’s eating her grapes, I’ll let her.  Even if I’m tired.
The hardest was when she left for college.  We dropped her off a couple days early, so the campus was empty, and I have this very clear image of her walking alone across the quad.  I stared at my daughter’s back while she literally walked into the next phase of her life.  So many questions were running through my mind: ‘Did we prepare her enough?  Is she happy?  Will she feel comfortable enough to tell us if she’s not?’  Looking back, I wish I hadn’t fretted so much over the small stuff.  When she was young, we were worried so much about whether she started on the soccer team, or if she got chosen for the front row at the dance competition, or if she was playing flute at the recital.  We worried so much about that stuff because we were looking for any sort of validation that we were doing a good job.  And in our desperation to be good parents we became our children.  I wish I knew how fast all that stuff would fade away.  And how little any of that would matter once she became an adult.
HONY Stories is 50% off at Amazon for the next 48 hours, which is the cheapest it has been since Christmas.  Moby was going to tell you about this promotion, but he got distracted by something across the street, which led to a total breakdown in discipline, and ended in absolute chaos.  You can find the book here:
My mom gave me up when I was three days old, and I was raised by my paternal grandparents.  They were immigrants.  They could only teach me what they knew.  And they thought that children should be seen and not heard.  In their world, you're not supposed to have feelings or opinions until you turn eighteen.  So when I told them that my father was abusive, they didn’t want to hear it.  I was expected to keep quiet.  And apologies were expected to be forgiven.  I left the house as soon as I turned sixteen.  And I immediately entered an abusive relationship.  I was looking for love and he seemed like love.  He gave me what I never had.  He made me feel needed.  He loved when I cooked for him.  He loved that I soothed him when he lost his temper.  But after awhile, nothing could soothe him anymore.
I’ve been writing for twenty-five years.  I just finished my second novel.  I had a really severe anxiety attack right before my deadline.  I thought I was having a heart attack.  I could barely breathe.  I couldn’t calm down.  Part of it was just the pressure of the deadline.  But another part of it was the pressure to do something great.  I feel like I’ve always been ‘almost there.’  I think I’m still trying to prove I’m a professional.  I’ve always been on the playing field, but every time I get up to bat, the game gets cancelled for rain.  I'm hoping to finally break through.  I don’t know what form that will take.  Maybe a bestseller, or a great review, or an invitation to sit on a panel.  When I read interviews with successful authors, most of them point at a specific event, and say: ‘After that happened, I never looked back.’  And that’s what I want.  To never look back.
I’ve always believed in heaven.  But it was so hard to lean on that understanding after my father passed away.  I was a Daddy’s girl.  His death was an emotional clusterfuck.  I could close my eyes and imagine he was somewhere else.  But for the first time in my life, I couldn’t pinpoint his location on a map.  And even though I’d taken an astronomy class in college, I couldn’t find him with a telescope.  His absence was so much more real than I thought it would be.  And it really shook my beliefs.  I had to form a deeper understanding of what exactly ‘heaven’ means.  And I’m still working on that.  But I do still talk to him everyday.  And I still believe that I’ll see him again.


When I was six months old, I was dropped off at an orphanage in Northern China with a little note pinned on my shirt. It only had the name of my village. The orphanage named me Gaoanna, which translates to ‘Girl From High Mountains.’ My mother decided to adopt me after she received my picture in the mail. She was 45 at the time. She had recently gotten divorced. She’d never had children. So it’s just been the two of us my whole life. I remember one time in high school, we got in an argument and my mom got very emotional. She started crying and said: ‘We can’t fight. It’s just the two of us. We have to stick together.’ At that moment I realized how much I had changed my mom’s life. She’d known from the start, of course. But it was something I needed to learn.


Mom turns 103 this August.  I try to spend four afternoons a week with her.  There are a lot of things she doesn’t remember.  But she’s great with nursery rhymes and songs.  So we come down here and sing the ones that she remembers.
One night she asked me to tell her a bedtime story.  And I started telling her this long story about Finnegan the Moose.  Finnegan was a very dignified moose.  But one day a crazy goose named Reginald came and sat on his head.  Reginald was a very exciting goose.  She was always making bold proclamations, and suggesting crazy adventures, and her tongue was always hanging out of her mouth. Finnegan would always do whatever Reginald suggested.  And he’d pretend that he understood her even when she didn’t make sense.  Because before Reginald landed on his head, Finnegan’s life was a little boring.  It wasn’t a bad life.  It was a normal moose life.  He just hadn’t met his best friend yet.  And he didn’t even know she was out there.
I thought we were just going to hang out at his sister’s place today, but when I got there, Jim wasn’t there.  But his sister gave me an envelope and told me that Jim was waiting for me at the place where we saw The Nutcracker.  But when I got to the theater, only Jim’s parents were there.  But they gave me another envelope and told me that Jim was waiting for me at our favorite coffee shop.  But when I got to the shop, only MY parents were there.  But they gave me another envelope and told me that Jim was waiting for me at the place where we first went row boating.  And when I got here, Jim was here.  And he gave me one last envelope.  And I opened all four envelopes and it said: ‘Will,’ ‘You,’ ‘Marry,’ ‘Me!’
I'm going to build a rocket ship out of a trash can and some wood and a bubble that never pops, and then I'm going to test it out to see if it goes somewhere, and if it goes somewhere, I'll go to outer space and see things that people never even saw before."


Over the past two weeks, 90,000 of you donated nearly $3.4 million to help fight pediatric cancer. That is a staggering amount of money. Thank you. For those of you who might not have been in a place to contribute financially, thank you so much for engaging with this difficult material. The support and solidarity you showed these families was just as valuable as the money itself. You are the most caring community of people on the Internet. That’s no exaggeration. It’s proven by the tone of every comment section. And it’s proven by the $8.5 million you’ve given to charity in the past 1.5 years. You are such a compassionate collection of people, and I can’t thank you enough for all that you’ve contributed to HONY. Lastly, thank you so much to Dr. O'Reilly and the Department of Pediatrics at Memorial Sloan Kettering for making this series possible. Special thanks to Nina Pickett and Rachel Corke, who paved every stone on my path. I’ve got one last story to leave you with. Last night you raised over $1 million in honor of Max to research and cure DIPG—the brain tumor that killed him. Dr. Souweidane tells me that this money represents the single greatest leap forward in his personal crusade against DIPG. When I interviewed Julie a few days ago, we were sitting on a bench in Madison Square Park that had been dedicated to Max. The plaque listed all the things that Max loved, and one of those things was ‘millions.’ I asked Julie what that meant. ‘Max’s uncle Charley gave him one hundred dollars,’ she told me. ‘And Max kept saying that one day he’d have a million.’ So thank you, everyone, for giving Max his million.I’ll be leaving the fundraiser up all day, for anyone who would still like to donate:




(5/5) I used to be a really happy person. I really was. I was the person who would walk outside and say: ‘Isn’t everything beautiful? Isn’t life wonderful? Aren’t we so lucky?’ I don’t have that sense of joy anymore. I remember the Mother’s Day before Max was diagnosed. It was four years ago. We were in this same park. On the lawn over there. It was beautiful. All three of us were there. Irene and I were in love. And Max was lying on my feet and pretending to fly in the air. And he was laughing so hard and I remember feeling so happy and full of life. It was the last moment that I truly felt joy.Today is the last day of our fundraiser to aid  in their fight against pediatric cancer. Over 70,000 people have donated and with over $2.6 million has been raised so far. Max’s tumor is the same tumor that Dr. Souweidane is working on curing. (See previous story). In fact, Max was supposed to be part of Dr. Souweidane’s first clinical trial but he passed away too soon. I promised Julie that all money raised during the telling of Max’s story would be given to Dr. Souwedaine and his colleagues to aid in their DIPG research. The gift will be given in Max’s honor. Even if it’s a small amount,  




(4/5) I think I have post traumatic stress. I have so many horrible flashbacks. Two weeks after Max was diagnosed, he asked me if I’d be his Mommy forever. I said, ‘Of course I will.’ And he asked: ‘Even when I’m ninety?’ And I told him ‘yes.’ What was I supposed to say? And there were all the times he talked to me about the future. We’d talk about college. I just couldn’t tell him. God I was such a coward. I should have told him. I just couldn’t do it. Even toward the end. The day before he lost consciousness, I read his favorite book to him. It’s called Runaway Bunny. And the little bunny keeps threatening to run away. And the Mama bunny keeps saying: ‘Wherever you go, I will find you.’ Oh God, it was such a horrible way to die. He couldn’t speak or move or swallow or see. He basically starved to death. And the whole last week I’m whispering in his ear: ‘Let go, let go. Please Max, let go.’ My seven-year-old son. I’m telling him to let go. I mean, fuck. That’s not supposed to happen! And the whole time I never told him he was dying. I was such a coward. But he knew. He knew without me telling him. Because a couple weeks before he lost his speech, he asked me: ‘Mommy, do they speak English where I’m going?’ Today is the last day of our fundraiser to aid  in their fight against pediatric cancer. Over 65,000 people have donated and we’ve raised over $2.3 million so far. Max’s tumor is the same tumor that Dr. Souweidane is working on curing. (See previous story). In fact, Max was supposed to be part of Dr. Souweidane’s first clinical trial but he passed away too soon. I promised Julie that all money raised during the telling of Max’s story would be given to Dr. Souwedaine and his colleagues to aid in their DIPG research. The gift will be given in Max’s honor. Even if it’s a small amount,  




(3/5) There was a tumor in his brain. The doctor told us that he knew what it was. He said it was called DIPG and that he hadn’t found anything that worked. He said it would eventually kill him. And I started screaming. And I asked how long. And he told us a year. He told us that ‘doing nothing’ was an acceptable choice. And he said, ‘This will be harder on you than it is on Max.’ And I remember looking at Max. And he was so beautiful. All he had was that crossed eye. Our life had been beautiful and now everything sucked. I didn’t know what to do. So we went to the Lego store. He was obsessed with Legos. That night he got so many Legos.Today is the last day of our fundraiser to aid  in their fight against pediatric cancer. Nearly 60,000 people have donated and we’ve raised over $2.2 million so far. Max’s tumor is the same tumor that Dr. Souweidane is working on curing. (See previous story). I promised Julie that all money raised during the telling of her story would be given to Dr. Souweidane and his colleagues to aid in the fight against DIPG. The gift will be given in Max’s honor. Even if it’s a small amount,




(2/5) One of Max’s eyes started crossing over when he turned six years old. But I wasn’t too worried. He’d been such a healthy kid. I thought maybe he was developing a bit of a lazy eye. But the doctor started getting really uncomfortable during our appointment. He scheduled an MRI for the next day, and he told me: ‘Let’s not be too worried. I’m going to sleep well tonight.’ It was such a weird thing to say. Right? I had been completely relaxed until he said that. We got the MRI early the next morning, and I went to work. The results came in a few hours later. They called me while I was walking down the street. I just collapsed on the sidewalk.This is the last day of our fundraiser to help fight pediatric cancer at . We’ve raised over $2 million so far. Funding is scarce in pediatric cancer, and largely relies on private donations. So this money will have a giant impact. These donations will fund the science that saves the lives of children. So even if it’s a small amount,  


(1/5) Max had two mothers. We found a sperm donor and I gave birth to him through IVF. He was actually a twin. I decided to reduce the pregnancy because I was scared at the time. I didn't think I could handle twins. And that decision will haunt me for the rest of my life. Max was such a sweet child. I was a bit of a hard ass on him. I wanted to be sure that I gave him boundaries because I never had them growing up. But I think it brought us closer together. Because he knew I’d always protect him. And he was so protective of me too. But in such a sweet way. He’d hold my face in his hands. God he was so sweet. Just such a nice guy. So funny. He loved to laugh. His bedroom was close to ours and we used to hear him in there late at night, laughing by himself."  This is the final day of our fundraiser to help fight pediatric cancer at . We’ve raised over $2 million so far. Funding is scarce in pediatric cancer and largely relies on private donations. So these donations will have a giant impact. They will fund the science that saves the lives of children. So even if it’s a small amount,










(4/4) My childhood was building things: model rockets, model cars, train sets, airplanes. And I didn’t just build them. I focused on every detail. I hand painted every letter on the train. I sanded the wooden ribs of the airplane until everything was so precise and fit. And it felt so good when that work was finished and appreciated. It was the same drive that brought me into neurosurgery. I loved fixing things. And I had always been successful. To get to be a neurosurgeon, I had to succeed on so many levels. I’d become accustomed to success. But I finally found something I couldn’t fix. All my DIPG patients were dying. It was failure beyond failure. Kids were dying because I’m not good enough at this. And they don’t deserve it. And neither do the parents. It’s so hard to face these parents. They’ve envisioned everything that’s going to happen to their child from the day they were born: the first girlfriend, the first job, the first homerun, the first time tasting meatballs, it’s infinite. And they come into my office and, ‘Kaboom.’ All of it disappears. It’s horrible. Seeing their faces. It’s beyond abominable. I just can’t take it. I’ve got to stop these kids from dying.Help us fund Dr. Souwedaine's work. There are less than two days left in our fundraiser to help fight pediatric cancer at . Your donations will fund the science that saves the lives of children. This includes the research of Dr. Souwedaine. Over 50,000 people have donated and we’ve raised $1.9 million so so far. It would be amazing if we could reach $2,000,000 by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount,  


 In May of 2012, I finally got approval to conduct a clinical trial. A family flew up from Florida with their child Caitlyn. I was so nervous. I’d written so many elegant papers. I’d conducted so many trials on mice. I’d done so many tests in the lab proving that this could work. But here I was looking at a human child. Am I really ready? The spotlight was unbelievable. If I kill this child, it will decimate me emotionally. And the institution’s reputation was on the line. Had I done enough? Had I prepared enough? All these things were running through my mind as Caitlyn’s mother signed the consent. But when she finished, she turned to me and said: ‘Whatever happens, thank you for trying.’ And I still get emotional when I think about that. Because she took so much weight off me. The operation was a success. This is Caitlyn a week later. She could walk! She could jump! She could touch her nose! She lived for a year after that, but then her cancer came back and killed her. It was so hard for me. I was so close to her family. But right now I’ve had about twenty successful trials. That’s twenty living children. One young woman has been alive for three years. Every passing day that those children are still alive is the greatest day of my life. We have two days left in our fundraiser to help fight pediatric cancer at . Your donations will fund the science that saves the lives of children. This includes the research of Dr. Souwedaine, whose story is being told this evening. Nearly 50,000 people have donated and $1.8 million has been raised so far. It would be amazing if we could reach $2,000,000 by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount,




(2/4) When I first started working on DIPG in 1990, I thought: ‘I’ll figure it out in two years.’ That was before I had gray hair. I had no money. My office was the size of a closet and I was buying my own rats. But I was so optimistic. I had no idea what was facing me. There were so many hurdles I didn’t see. Everything was new. I never had any experts I could call or articles I could read. I had to figure everything out on my own. From a surgeon’s viewpoint, the tumor is unforgiving. It infiltrates the brain stem. Everything your body feels or experiences passes through that stem. You can’t violate it with a knife. It’s futile to even think about. So I had to figure out how to insert a catheter through the brain, and inject chemotherapy directly into the tumor. There is zero room for error. These chemicals must only touch the tumor. If you miss the target by a couple millimeters, it can be fatal. Brain surgeons aren’t artists. There isn’t much room to be creative. The innovator in neurosurgery is under a great deal of pressure. We must invent without being too imaginative. If we stray too far from our ancestors, it could lead to death. We have two days left in our fundraiser to help fight pediatric cancer at . Your donations will fund the science that saves the lives of children. This includes the research of Dr. Souwedaine, whose story is being told this evening. Nearly 50,000 people have donated and $1.8 million has been raised so far. It would be amazing if we could reach $2,000,000 by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount,


 I’ve been on a mission for seventeen years. It’s my holy grail. I’m trying to cure a brain tumor called DIPG that kills 100 percent of the children who have it. It only affects 200 kids a year so it’s never gotten much attention. But if you saw a child die from DIPG, you’d understand why I care so much. It’s awful. It’s just awful. Parents come to me in droves asking me to help. They say: ‘This can’t happen. Please do something.’ But there’s nothing I can do. Their child will be dead in a year. It’s horrible. It’s been a very tough thing to care about. I didn’t get into neurosurgery to watch kids die. I chose this job to heal people. And DIPG has been seventeen years of watching kids die. It’s a very dark place to work. But if I can find a cure, so much of that pain will be paid back in a single instant. And on that day I will feel like there has been some justice.We have two days left in our fundraiser to help fight pediatric cancer at . Your donations will fund the science that saves the lives of children. This includes the research of Dr. Souwedaine, whose story is being told this evening. Over 47,000 people have donated and $1.7 million has been raised so far. It would be amazing if we could reach $2,000,000 by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount,




I have two birthdays. My first birthday is May 19th, 1992. And my second birthday is December 28th, 2007. That’s the day that I got my bone marrow transplant and my new immune system was born. I was just like a baby again. I was so weak. I had no energy. I couldn’t do anything for myself. We celebrate that day every year. It’s not a huge party. I don’t get a big cake maybe just a cupcake with a candle. But my family gets together and we talk about all the good things that have happened to us in the previous year. I always say that I wouldn’t change a thing about my life. Even the cancer. Because my family is very close now. And sometimes I feel that we are this… because of that.We have two days left in our fundraiser to help fight pediatric cancer at . Over 46,000 people have donated and $1.7 million has been raised so far. It would be amazing if we could reach 50,000 donations by the end of the series. Your donations will fund the science that saves the lives of children. Even if it’s a small amount,  




Sebastian was diagnosed when he was twenty months old. He needed several rounds of chemo just to shrink the tumor to the size of an orange. He couldn’t eat for fifteen days because they didn’t want to feed the tumor. He was in so much pain. The lining of his stomach had burned away. Every time he woke up, I’d just rock him back to sleep. I never wanted him to be awake. I was hoping so hard that he was still young enough to forget everything. But the cancer kept coming back. And he grew old enough to realize he was sick. And that broke my heart. I was up with him one night after the cancer came back again. He’d already had six surgeries at this point and we were doing more chemotherapy. He was throwing up and had diarrhea. I felt so bad for him. And I was so tired and felt so guilty for neglecting my other children. And Sebastian said to me, ‘I’m so happy, Mommy.’ And I was so confused because I couldn’t understand how he could possibly be happy. Then he smiled, and said: ‘Because I love you so much.’We have two days left in our fundraiser to help fight pediatric cancer at . 44,000 people have donated and over $1.6 million has been raised so far. It would be amazing if we could reach 50,000 donations by the end of the series. Your donations will fund the science that saves the lives of children. Even if it’s a small amount,  




(6/6) If I was to write a book about this whole experience, it would be called The Town That Saved Grace. So many people rallied around my daughter. There are just so many good people out there. Every time you turn on the TV, it’s always people yelling and fighting. You forget how many good people there are. After Grace got diagnosed, people cooked dinner for us for months. The schools were so supportive. Everyone helped out: the swim team, the soccer team, the fire department, the church. Our church had a rosary for Grace one day and they couldn’t even fit everyone in the chapel. Absolute strangers would stop us in the supermarket and tell us they were praying for us. But the moment I’ll never forget is when we were driving in our car one day, and we pulled over to stop at a lemonade stand. And it was a lemonade stand for Grace.Grace’s life was saved by an experimental antibody, which resulted from the efforts of a group of parents who raised $2,000,000 to fund research. We are currently holding our own fundraiser to help the team at  in their fight against pediatric cancer. Your donations will fund the science that saves the lives of children. There are three days left. Over 35,000 people have donated so far and we have raised over $1.4 million. It would be amazing if we could reach 50,000 donations by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount,  




(5/6) These are my beads of courage. You get a yellow bead for an overnight stay. A white bead is for chemo. A black bead is when you get pricked. And I have two special heart-shaped beads because my heart stopped twice. The first time my heart stopped was late at night. It started beating really fast, and my nurse got very scared, and suddenly ten doctors ran in. They pulled out a big bag of ice and put it on my chest. I was a little annoyed because Justin Bieber was performing at the VMA’s and I had to turn down the volume. The doctors said, ‘Grace have you ever been on a roller coaster? This medicine is going to make you feel like you’re going down a giant hill!’ And they started putting those shock paddles on me. And I heard them tell my mom they were going to stop my heart, and she took out her Valium and started chewing it so it would work faster. Then somebody screamed, ‘Everyone clear!’ And my Mom said: ‘Are you ready Grace? It’s just a roller coaster! Are you ready?’ And then they pushed the shot into my IV and it felt like the world stopped spinning. The machine was going ‘beep, beep, beep,’ but then it stopped. And then nothing. And then nothing. And it felt like a giant boulder was dropped on my chest. And then suddenly my heart started beating again. And I yelled: ‘That did not feel like a roller coaster!’Grace’s life was saved by an experimental antibody, which resulted from the efforts of a group of parents who raised $2,000,000 to fund research. We are currently holding our own fundraiser to help the team at  in their fight against pediatric cancer. Your donations will fund the science that saves the lives of children. There are three days left. Over 35,000 people have donated so far and we have raised over $1.4 million. It would be amazing if we could reach 50,000 donations by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount,  




(4/6) I want to be a pediatric surgeon. Our friend Mark is a surgeon and he told me all about it. Being a pediatric surgeon will be hard because you never want to hurt kids. You just want to cuddle them and hold them. But saving them is most important so it’s something you have to do. Also blood doesn’t bother me like it bothers my brother—and he’s sixteen! One time he got blood work done and he was so scared that he curled his toes and his hands. It doesn’t bother me though. I even had my surgeon film my surgery for me because I wanted to see his techniques. When I asked him, he was like: ‘Nobody’s ever asked that before.’ And I said: ‘Please? We can use my brother’s GoPro.’Grace’s life was saved by an experimental antibody that was funded by a group of parents who raised $2,000,000. We are currently holding our own fundraiser to help the team at  in their fight against pediatric cancer. This money funds the science that saves the lives of children. There are three days left. Over 35,000 people have donated so far and we have raised over $1.3 million. It would be amazing if we could reach 50,000 donations by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount,




(3/6) I wasn’t going to give up. We tried taking Grace to another hospital but they told us the same thing: ‘There’s nothing we can do.’ But then we brought her to Sloan, and they told us: ‘We think there’s one more thing we can try.’ It was an experimental antibody called Humanized 3F8. It triggered Grace’s immune system to attack her cancer. It was so painful. It felt like she was getting a root canal over her entire body. After two rounds of treatment they did another scan. They wanted to see if there was any progress. The therapy was so painful that if it wasn’t working they wanted to stop. They called me in the office to give me the results. They told Grace to wait outside. I was so nervous. I could barely stand. When I walked in, nobody was saying anything at first. I thought: ‘Oh, God. They don’t want to tell me.’ Suddenly they said: ‘This is amazing. It’s never happened before.’ And they held up her scan and the cancer was gone. It had been everywhere: her pelvis, her skull, her bones, her arms. And now it was gone. All of us started crying. You may remember the post from a few days ago that told the story of The Band of Parents, who raised $2,000,000 to fund the development of an antibody. Humanized 3F8 was that antibody. Grace’s life was saved through their efforts. Right now we are holding our own fundraiser to help the team at  in their fight against pediatric cancer. As you can see, this research saves lives. There are three days left. Over 33,000 people have donated so far and we are nearing $1.3 million. It would be amazing if we could reach 50,000 donations by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount,




(2/6) The radiation was so strong that I couldn’t sit next to her for two weeks. But Grace handled all her treatment so well. She named her new dog after the chemotherapy medicine. She’d walk through the lobby of the hospital, and she’d see kids who’d lost limbs, or had brain surgery, and she’d say: ‘I’m so lucky.’ But when the treatment was over, the doctors did another scan, and nothing had changed. They told me: ‘We’re no longer treating her to cure her.’ In the beginning they were so optimistic. They were telling me about all these options and all this stuff they were going to do. And now they were telling me to give up. And I’m looking at Grace. And she looks OK. She looks strong. She doesn’t look like the girl that I’m reading about in these medical charts. But they’re telling me to give up on her. They’re saying our goal is to keep her as comfortable as possible. Keep her comfortable? What do you mean? What are you trying to say? I’ll never forget that day. The doctor told me: ‘Let’s not worry about this afternoon’s appointment. Go home and have some fun.As we learn these stories, we are holding a fundraiser to help the team at  in their fight against pediatric cancer. This money will be used to develop innovative treatments for rare pediatric cancers. This research saves lives. There are three days left. Over 31,000 people have donated so far and we’ve raised over $1.2 million. It would be amazing if we could reach 50,000 donations by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount,




(1/6) She came back from soccer practice one day, limping and crying. And we knew something wasn’t right because Grace is tough. The doctors thought it was a pulled muscle at first but when they gave her the MRI, they could see stuff in her bones. They said it wasn’t leukemia, and we thought: ‘Thank God.’ But then they told us it was neuroblastoma. Stage four, high risk as if stage four wasn’t bad enough, they had to add an extra label. I was so scared during our first meeting that I put a statue of the Virgin Mary on the table. I thought maybe it would protect us. The doctors started going through the treatment plan. They told us percentages but I didn’t want to listen. They might know about cancer but they didn’t know Grace. So I didn’t want to hear it. Two weeks after the diagnosis, a friend wrote Grace a really nice letter of encouragement. It basically said: ‘I had stage two cancer, and everything turned out just fine!’ Grace folded up the letter, and asked me: ‘Mom, what stage do I have?’ And I told her: ‘Four.’ And she said, ‘How many stages are there?’ I wanted so bad to say: ‘One hundred and fifty.’ But I had to tell her the truth.As we learn these stories, we are holding a fundraiser to help the team at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in their fight against pediatric cancer. This money will be used to develop innovative treatments for rare pediatric cancers. This research saves lives. There are three days left. Over 31,000 people have donated so far and we’ve raised over $1.2 million. It would be amazing if we could reach 50,000 donations by the end of the series. Even if it’s a small amount,




In the movies, scientists are portrayed as having a ‘eureka moment’—that singular moment in time when their faces change and they find the answer. In practice, research is a lot of persistence and teamwork. So it’s hard to say what a ‘eureka moment’ would look like in my research. Maybe it’s when I’m finally able to look patients and parents in the eye and say with confidence that we have what’sneeded to cure them. All oncologists hunger for that knowledge. We want to take this impenetrable mass of data and finally reach the point where we never have to give another "percent chance of survival.' Because that chance will always be one hundred percent.There are four days left in our fundraiser to help the doctors, nurses, and researchers at  in their fight against pediatric cancer. Over 30,000 people have donated so far and we’ve raised nearly $1.2 million. To put that in context—the money we’ve raised is enough to run Dr. Kentsis’s lab for an entire year. Your donations will have an impact, and could very well save lives. Even if it’s a small amount,




The fundamental question of cancer biology has always been the same: ‘What makes a cancer cell a cancer cell?’ And we are closer to answering this than ever before. It’s a historic time. It’s the molecular era. This machine takes cells from tumors and breaks them into individual molecules. Millions of molecules per second pass through this machine, and we analyze all of them. We’re looking for the molecule that does not belong. If we find it, we can target it. And if we can target it, we can eliminate the cancer cells that depend on it. Cancer biologists have already discovered this molecule in certain types of blood cancer. This is not an overstatement. Today, with certain groups of patients, we can achieve cure.There are four days left in our fundraiser to help the doctors, nurses, and researchers at  in their fight against pediatric cancer. Over 30,000 people have donated so far and we’ve raised nearly $1.2 million. To put that in context—the money we’ve raised is enough to run Dr. Kentsis’s lab for an entire year. Your donations will have an impact, and could very well save lives. Even if it’s a small amount,




It was one of the most despicable things I’ve seen in my career. It was ten years ago. There were about twenty families being treated here whose kids had Neuroblastoma. The survival rate was about ten percent. One of our doctors developed an antibody that he thought was promising. But he’d run out of money. So he called a town hall meeting of sorts. He brought all the families together and told them he needed two million dollars. And they told him: ‘We’ll find it.’ We refer to them now as the Band of Parents. These people were desperate. Many of them were broke. And this burden was being placed on them. It made me sick. But they went back to their communities. They baked cookies, and organized bike rides, and held fundraisers named after their children. And they raised the money. All two million. And it worked. Dr. Cheung’s antibody worked. Today the survival rate is sixty percent. But it was so sad. Because deep in their hearts those parents knew the antibody would not be ready in time to save their child. But they raised the money anyway. Small amounts of money can have outsized impact in the world of pediatric cancer. Because these cancers are so rare, only four percent of government funding for cancer research goes to pediatrics. Therefore research relies heavily on private donations. Almost 30,000 people have donated so far to our fundraiser, and we’ve raised nearly 1.1 million to help  develop treatments for these cancers. As you can see, this amount of money can and does save lives. Even if it’s a small amount,




Nobody ever tells each other the truth around here. It’s not to say that anyone is lying. Everyone just hides what they're really thinking. Mommy doesn’t want the child to feel sad. The child doesn’t want Mommy to feel sad. So everyone wears a mask. Everyone is doing ‘just fine.’ Everyone is ‘feeling OK.’ Everyone is so excited about going to see the ball game or spending a day in the park. I think the only people who really see the truth around here are the night nurses. In the middle of the night, nobody is depending on you to be someone else. There’s no more distractions or visitors or physicians. It’s just you, your medication, and time.Just a few days left in our fundraiser to help  fight pediatric cancer. Over 28,000 people have donated so far and we’ve raised over $1,000,000. This money will be used to help develop innovative treatments for the rare childhood cancers that MSK helps fight. If you’ve been inspired by the stories of these patients, doctors, and nurses, please consider being counted in our effort to support them: 




Her tumor was the size of a grapefruit. I don’t even know how it fit in her body. There’s no protocol for neuroblastoma. Everything is experimental. Different doctors have different opinions, so I have to make choices that you couldn’t imagine. Horrible choices. She’s had several rounds of chemo, antibody therapy, a stem cell transplant, and a twelve-hour surgery. The surgery was risky. One doctor tried to talk me out of it. I don’t understand this stuff but I still have to make these decisions. I think I’ve made all the right choices so far but the next one could be the wrong one. It’s so stressful. You know that feeling you have when you’re waiting for a call back from a job interview? That’s all the time for me. Except it’s not a job. It’s my kid’s life. I push all the emotional stuff to the back burner. I feel like the only way to keep moving is to stay numb. My only therapy is talking to the other moms here. We’re all going through the same thing. So that helps. But then again we lose a lot of our friends here. Her best friend’s cancer just spread to the brain. So that’s scary as shit. Just a few days left in our fundraiser to help  fight pediatric cancer. Nearly 28,000 people have donated so far and we’ve raised over $1,000,000. This money will be used to help develop innovative treatments for the rare childhood cancers that MSK helps fight. If you’ve been inspired by the stories of these patients, doctors, and nurses, please consider being counted in our effort to support them: 




Cancer engenders immediate fear. I think that deep in our soul, we don’t want to admit to the possibility that we might have it too. So when someone else gets cancer, we turn that person into an ‘other.’ If that person is ‘other than us,’ then maybe it won’t happen to us. For the past thirty years, I’ve done everything I can to keep children from feeling like an ‘other.’ Yes, this child has cancer. But this child is a normal kid. Alongside their illness, they are dealing with demons that the average adult has never faced. So not only must we heal them, we must also never let them feel ‘less good’ or ‘less worthwhile.’ Because if we disrupt their ability to relate to the world, then the cancer will define the rest of their life.




Twelve thousand kids per year get cancer in the United States. But the extraordinary thing isn’t that cancer happens. The extraordinary thing is that cancer doesn’t happen more often. Every human life begins with a single cell. Trillions of cells will form from that single cell. During this process, the DNA will rearrange itself hundreds of times to form all different types of cells: muscle, nerve, bone, blood, connective tissue. If you look at these cells under a microscope, each one has special properties. They all have codes that tell them exactly what to do and exactly when to stop doing it. The complexity of this is extraordinary. There are numerous fail-safes at every level to prevent mistakes. How is it possible that it ever works correctly? There are trillions of chances for something to go wrong. God, it’s unbelievable. The longer I study cancer, the more I’m in awe of the healthy child.Thanks to the 27,000 people who donated, last night we reached our goal of $1,000,000 to help Dr. O’Reilly and his team at  fight pediatric cancer. (A special thanks to the anonymous $14,000 donor who put us over the top in dramatic fashion.) We’ll try to add to that total in the remaining few days to make the largest impact possible. Thanks to everyone who’s engaged with this series. I have received so many notes from the patients and doctors interviewed. They have been so moved and encouraged by your comments. I assure you that every single comment is being read. I know that many of the patient stories have been extremely difficult to read, so thanks to all of you who have helped bear the weight of these stories. Cancer is extremely isolating and there is great value in every type of human connection. So thank you. Anyone still wishing to contribute to our fundraiser can do so here:




We’re doing fine. We see a lot of psychologists in the hospital. They ask a lot of questions. They’re looking for problems. They think we’re hiding something from them. It’s a nice conversation but there’s nothing to find. Maybe it’s because we’re simple minds and we don’t think too deeply about things. We’re treating this like a normal event. A lot of people have it worse than us. We have access to the best care in the world. Our only problem is boredom. We should be thankful. The cancer is gone now. If it comes back, it comes back. But why worry about something that hasn’t happened yet?




It’s been twelve hours a day, six days a week, for the last thirty years. My goal during all these years was to help all I could help. I’ve given 200%. I’ve given transplants to over 1200 kids. I’ve published as many papers as I could. I’ve contributed to some major achievements here. I feel happy because I've done my part. But now I’m almost finished. It’s time for the young people out there to finish the job. They’re going to be smarter than us. They’ll know more. They’re going to unzip the DNA and find the typo. They’re going to invent targeted therapies so we don’t have to use all this radiation. Me? My goal for the remainder of my life is to not be useful. I want to learn Portuguese. I want to play the guitar. I want to eat, drink, and enjoy the company of my friends. I recognize these are selfish things. But at some point we must treat ourselves as well.We’re about 93% of the way toward our goal of $1,000,000 to help the team at  in their fight against pediatric cancer. Our donations will go toward the development of specialized treatments to give kids with rare tumors a chance at life. Thanks so much to everyone who’s donated so far. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider contributing:




The caretakers play a crucial role, but there’s no way to predict how a parent will react to this. Sometimes they are the best helpers. They come in wanting to win. They say, ‘We’re going to beat the crap out of this thing.’ And that positive attitude flows down to the child. ‘I can’ becomes ‘we can.’ But sometimes the parents give up before treatment begins. You see it in their eyes. The battle is lost before we start. They say ‘I can’t,’ and that becomes ‘we can’t.’ The child becomes defeated and that hurts us. Because the child is the captain of this team and we need our captain to be strong. But I’m not judging these parents. They are experiencing the toughest thing a human can go through. On a scale of zero to death, this experience is right next to death. So it’s not fair to judge a person’s response. And there’s very little we can do about it. It’s almost impossible to change someone’s attitude. Because there’s never one reason that a person feels defeated. There are twenty or thirty reasons. People bring their entire lives with them into this hospital. We can provide encouragement. We can say, ‘Things will get better soon.’ But we can’t change someone’s entire life. We’re almost 90% of the way toward our goal of $1,000,000 to help the team at  in their fight against pediatric cancer. MSK handles some of the toughest cases of childhood cancer, and our donations will go toward the development of specialized treatments to give these kids a chance. Thanks so much to everyone who’s donated so far. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider contributing: 




(7/7) I’ve thought about what I would say if I could go back in time, and talk to myself before I got cancer. I’d say get ready to not be who you are right now. And get ready to deal with a lot of disappointments and pain. And just keep strong. And never give up. And don’t lock yourself in your room if you get sad or angry. Because nobody can help you if you’re in your room and the problem will get worse. And stop fighting with your brothers and sisters. Because you’re really going to need them soon and they are going to help you so much. And keep watching sports. Because those are really going to cheer you up.We’re just $200,000 away from our goal of $1,000,000 to help the team at  in their fight against pediatric cancer. MSK helped save Avi’s life along with thousands of other children, and we’re trying to help empower them to save even more. We’re almost there. Please help push us over the top:




(6/7) Whenever I saw my parents sad, it always made me a little more nervous. Like when I asked my mom how long it would be until I could eat again. And I said: ‘Ten years?’ And she shook her head and said, ‘Not that long.’ Then I said, ‘Five years?’ And she started crying. I do feel sorry for them. They are the best parents in the world and it’s very hard for them. You know, me not being quite who I used to be. I don’t have my full voice back. I haven’t done much physical activity in the last two years. They were always very proud of me. I think they’re still proud of me now but for different reasons. A lot of adults tell me that I’m more mature than a lot of eighteen year olds. Because I know that life isn’t just happy times, and now I know how to handle it.As we learn these stories, we’re trying to raise $1,000,000 to help the team at  in their fight against pediatric cancer. They’ve helped save Avi’s life along with thousands of other children, and we’re trying to help empower them to save even more. We’re almost at our goal. Thanks to the 20,000 people who have donated so far. If a few thousand more people donate, we’ll get there. Even if it’s a small amount, please consider being counted:




(5/7) This is our last day of treatment. As we learn these stories, we are trying to raise $1,000,000 to help the team at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in their fight against pediatric cancer. They’ve helped save Avi’s life along with thousands of other children, and we’re trying to help empower them to save even more. We’re almost at our goal. Thanks to the 20,000 people who have donated so far. If you haven’t already, please consider being counted:




(4/7) Mark is such a good man. He’s the most dedicated father and husband you can imagine. He never spends money on himself. He never thinks of himself. He only cares about what the family needs. He helped start an organization that raises money for widows. He worked so hard on it. He went from synagogue to synagogue, asking for money. Yet he still thinks that all of this is his fault. He thinks that I’m pretty much perfect, and Avi is pretty much perfect, so it must be his fault. He couldn’t sleep for months after the diagnosis. He would be up for all hours. He spoke to so many rabbis and mental health professionals. He gave away all his possessions. He’d always tell me: ‘I know I’ve done something wrong. We’re being punished for something I did. And I don’t know what it is. But I’m so, so sorry.’


(3/7) I can’t tell you why this happened to my son. He was so healthy. He was at the top of his class. He was a great athlete. I used to watch him play sports and think: ‘I can’t believe this is my son!’ And he was so nice to the other children. Other parents would send us letters and gifts because Avi was so kind. He’s just so good. But they all are. You look around this place, and you don’t see any serial killers. These are all good people. These are not the people screaming at their kids in Target. One day during chemo, when his hair started to fall out, Avi turned to me and said: ‘I think I know why this is happening. I made fun of somebody at school one time.’ And that just broke my heart. I can’t describe what it felt like to watch him suffer. It was torture. I used to lay with him in bed at night and wish so bad that it could be me instead. I’d do anything to switch places with him. One night when he was really hurting, he told me: ‘You can’t understand what I’m going through, Dad.’ And I told him, ‘Trust me Avi. I can.’




(2/7) They finally got Avi breathing through a tube. The anesthesiologist cried when she saw him alive again. She said it was the scariest moment of her career. That night we parked our car in a 24-hour garage. We didn’t move it for five weeks. We slept head-to-toe on the bench in his room. I stared at those monitors non-stop. They told us Avi had Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia. The tumor was too big to remove so he began 25 months of chemo. Everything went wrong. Complication after complication. The ‘worst case scenario’ happened so many times that we began to expect it. He had over thirty surgeries. They completely removed his esophagus. He couldn’t eat for nineteen months. And he couldn’t talk for seven months not a whisper.




(1/7) This was the bench we sat on the night that Avi had his biopsy. He had been making weird breathing sounds. The pediatrician sent us here because she saw something on his X-ray. Avi was eleven at the time. I didn’t want him to feel scared so I told him it was just a silly little test, and we’d be going home soon. I walked with my back against the wall to hide all the signs that said ‘cancer.’ They took Avi in the back and we waited on this bench for a long time. It was Friday night and the place was empty. It started getting late. It was taking too long. When the doctors finally came back they looked very scared. The doctor told us, ‘We’re having a difficult time keeping his airway open.’ I was so confused. This was just supposed to be a test. I asked him: ‘What do you mean?’ He said: ‘Avi could die.’ He kept repeating it: ‘Avi could die.’ Then he said: ‘It’s time to pray.’




The absolute best thing in the world that can happen to me is telling a parent that their child’s tumor is benign. I live for those moments. And the worst thing that can happen to me is telling a parent that I’ve lost their kid. It’s only happened to me five times in thirty years. And I’ve wanted to kill myself every single time. Those parents trusted me with their child. It’s a sacred trust and the ultimate responsibility is always mine. I lose sleep for days. I second-guess every decision I made. And every time I lose a child, I tell the parents: ‘I’d rather be dead than her.’ And I mean it. But I go to church every single day. And I think that I’m going to see those kids in a better place. And I’m going to tell them that I’m sorry. And hopefully they’ll say, ‘Forget it. Come on in.’As we learn these stories, we are trying to raise $1,000,000 to help the team at  in their fight against pediatric cancer. Thanks to the 15,000 people who have contributed so far. We're almost 60% of the way there.  


If there’s a chance then it’s worth a try. Even if nobody else wants to try, I will try. A lot of these kids have exhausted all their options. They may have had several surgeries elsewhere and it’s either hospice or one more try. My colleagues are amazing. So I know that if I can get this lump out, the child has a chance. I view each of these kids as my own. My team is amazing but I take 100% responsibility for the outcome and I don’t like to lose a drop of blood. So it’s a lot of stress. I have four grafts in my heart. My neck muscles are always tense. Some of these surgeries have probably taken years off my life. But tumors kill kids in very horrible ways. So if there’s a chance, I will try.As we learn these stories, we are trying to raise $1,000,000 to help the team at  in their fight against pediatric cancer. Thanks to the 15,000 people who have contributed so far. We're almost 60% of the way there.




(3/3) I think it might be easier for children because they don’t understand what can happen. They don’t know the ‘what if’s.’ She can handle how bad it is because she doesn’t know how bad it can get. All she worries about is playing. You can’t even tell when she’s feeling bad. She uses her IV pole as a skateboard. She skips through the hall and sings Dora. She climbs rocks and rides her bike. I always have to remind her that she’s sick. I’m always telling her that we can do more things once she feels better. And whenever her friend has a birthday party, she tells me: ‘I’m all better now!’As we learn these stories, we are trying to raise $1,000,000 to help the team at  in their fight against pediatric cancer. Thanks to the 15,000 people who have contributed so far. We're more than halfway there!




(2/3) I cried all weekend when she was diagnosed. But I made sure that I ducked into other rooms so nobody would see me. It’s a little tougher being a man because you feel like you’re supposed to be the rock. You want to hold yourself together so the family can lean on you. I’m used to always being in control. I own my own business. I’ve always been the ‘go-to-guy’ for everybody else. But I have no control over this. And that’s tough. I just have to watch my daughter suffer and there’s nothing I can do about it.




(1/3) I feel like it’s draining us. Both emotionally and physically. Her immune system is so depleted that if she gets sick, it could kill her. So I’m afraid all the time. And that fear tends to keep me on the attack. I can be short tempered with my husband and my boys. I feel like if I scream, everyone will stay away from her and she’ll be OK. My husband and I have been fighting a lot. We’ll snap at each other over little things like the chores or giving her medicine. Before the diagnosis, we were always sure to talk things out before bed. But now we’re both so stressed that we hold stuff in. He doesn’t know how I’ll react. And I don’t know how he’ll react. So we just choose not to discuss our problems. This Saturday we went on our first date since the diagnosis. It was only two hours at an Italian restaurant, but it was nice to finally talk. We acknowledged that we’ve been on edge. And we apologized to each other.




Some of my colleagues tell me they can’t imagine working in pediatrics. Millions of years of evolution have conditioned us to respond to the cries of a child. We can’t bear to see a child in pain. And once we have children of our own, it makes the work even more difficult. We all handle it differently, but everyone cries at some point. Not in front of the patient, but everyone cries. Every few months we have a ceremony where we mourn all the children who have passed away. We have a slideshow. We make cards. We talk about them and remember them together. We acknowledge that we all feel the loss. And even though our grief is not as significant as the family’s, it’s not trivial either. And we must take time to acknowledge that. Or all of us will burn out.




(2/2) What did I do? It was certainly nothing she did. She’s just a child. It feels like we’re being punished for something I did. But I’m nice to people. I’ve never cheated on my husband. I’m nice to my parents. I feel so guilty. She was stage four when they discovered it. I should have known sooner. I should have listened to her complaints more. I should have said: ‘Maybe it’s not a pulled muscle. Let’s go to the doctor right this moment.’ Only eighty kids per year get this cancer. When she first got diagnosed it hurt me to look at her friends. They had their long hair, and they were driving their cars, and going to prom, and having boyfriends. They’re great kids but I couldn’t look at them without wondering: ‘Why? Why do they get to have a future?’ There’s a 23% survival rate. I try not to fixate on that number because I get so sad and I don’t want to go there. So I live as an actress. I’m playing the role of a happy person, but all I feel like is lying in bed and crying. The mom inside that hospital room helps her plan for her future. The mom inside that room believes her when she tells me that she’s not going anywhere. But the mom out here doesn’t know what to believe.As we learn these stories, we are trying to raise $1,000,000 to help the team at  in their fight against pediatric cancer. Thanks to the 11,000 people who have contributed so far. We're over 40% there.




 I got diagnosed last January. A mass behind my spine, two masses in my lungs, spots all over my lymph nodes and bone marrow. The guy who gave me the CT scan threw up afterward. The doctor said they could guarantee three years. I was like: ‘Three years. Holy shit.’ My biggest worry is that I’m going to die and not do all the things I wanted to do. The funny thing is—I didn’t even realize how many things I wanted to do until I got diagnosed. Simple things like meeting a guy, getting married, getting a job, having my own apartment, and even picking out my own furniture. Those never seemed too interesting to me. They just seemed like adult things that were guaranteed to happen. Now I want to do them so bad. Because I want to know what they feel like. As we learn these stories, we are trying to raise $1,000,000 to help the team at  in their fight against pediatric cancer. Thanks to the 11,000 people who have contributed so far. We're almost almost 40% there.


I got cancer in the summer when the pools were opening. And I really wanted to go swimming but I couldn’t leave the hospital. I begged her not to go swimming without me. And she didn’t because I couldn’t.




(2/2) You have to have faith and keep working. Back in the 70’s and 80’s, all of us were hoping for just a single survivor of stage four neuroblastoma. It was a rare cancer and we just couldn’t cure it. But eventually we figured it out. Recently over five hundred people attended a party we threw for neuroblastoma survivors. So change does happen. It just happens slowly. I have a colleague who lost hope recently. He’s been working on a brain tumor called DIPG, and he’s had nothing but three decades of negative outcomes. Dozens and dozens of failed trials. We just couldn’t touch the tumor because it’s in the main center of the brain. But my colleague stayed optimistic. He kept cheering us on. But he finally lost hope. After three decades of losing kids, he asked to not see any more DIPG patients. Then guess what happened. We finally have a survivor on our hands. Our neurosurgeon Dr. Souweidane figured out how to insert a catheter directly into the tumor. And we now have a girl that is 3.5 years from diagnosis. It’s still early, but it’s promising. She plays tennis. She plays violin. And she is gorgeous.




 Last week the Mets were down 3-0 in the seventh inning, and Céspedes tied the game with one swing. Well that doesn’t ever happen with cancer. Nothing is ever immediate. And the hardest part about being an oncologist is trying to be patient. My daughter is a huge Grey’s Anatomy fan. She loves those emergency room stories because they provide an immediate fix. But with cancer, there’s never a simple answer. And at this hospital we see some of the most difficult, challenging cases. You want so much to give that toddler’s parent some sort of guarantee, but you can’t. There’s no guarantee that the treatment will work. And if it doesn't work, there’s no guarantee that a new treatment will be developed in time. All we can do is try. And wait.


(3/3) I grew up around nature. I had a wonderful family and a great life and it was so easy to be a believer. Then over the course of a single weekend, I learned that my one-year-old son was blind, had a seizure disorder, and a brain tumor. I remember I went to a beach, and a storm was coming in, and I just sat on the edge of the ocean and I wailed. For an hour I screamed in the pouring rain. That was thirteen years ago, and there hasn’t been a moment of relaxation since then. We’ve researched everything. We’ve tried everything. Anything to keep the tumor from growing. And the longer we’ve gone on, the more we’ve tried, and the narrower the choices get. There is nothing I won’t do to save my child.  There is not a doctor you can keep me from. I’ll drive across the country for a single conversation. But I live with such pain. It’s not rocket science. Every day could be the day that I lose my child. But I’m trying to look up. I’m trying to have gratitude. And I’m trying to keep my faith."


(2/3) Sterling is the sanest one in our family. He’s our leader. He gets to be himself. If we were ourselves, we’d be rather useless because all the time we feel like disintegrating. We call him the Love Bug. He is always loving and happy. Every morning he sings a song while we walk down the driveway. It goes: ‘Another new day, coming my way! I can’t wait to go to school today!’ I look at him and think, ‘What is my problem?’ Then I tell myself, ‘Just follow the leader.’" As we learn the stories of doctors, nurses, and patients such as Sterling, we are raising money to research and cure the rare pediatric cancers they are battling against. So far over 8,500 people have donated and we’ve raised over $300,000. Thanks to all of you. Even if only one percent of the people following this page were to make a donation, that would amount to nearly 200,000 donations and over six million dollars. So please consider being counted. Many children come to  when they are out of options, and new options must be invented. The study of rare cancers involves small and relentless teams of researchers. Life-saving breakthroughs are made on very tight budgets. So your donations will make a difference. They may save a life. Please consider being counted:


(1/3) We’ve been fighting this for thirteen years. Sterling has a brain tumor in the center of his brain where the optic nerves cross. It’s inoperable. Our lives center around keeping the tumor from growing. That’s what we do. We’re here today to pick up a new experimental medicine. Sterling’s had over one thousand seizures. I joke that this whole experience has made me an involuntary Buddhist. When you live in a world of one thousand seizures, you have no choice but to live in the present. You’re jolted out of your mind every few minutes. And you learn about compassion. Having a special needs child has opened me up to the compassion of other people. There are so many people who are willing to help. When we first discovered the tumor, I sent Sterling’s scans to every hospital. I can’t tell you how many doctors gave me their time and didn’t charge a thing. Zero billable hours. Can you believe it? It was like going snorkeling for the first time, and discovering a whole new world of color that I didn’t know existed."




The nurse is in that room day in and day out. You give a piece of yourself to that child. But intimacy has its dangers. You have to be able to set it aside. You can’t come in on your days off. You have to be able to go home at the end of the day and have a glass of wine, or go rock climbing, or visit with friends. If you can’t go home and rebuild, you’ll burn out. You won’t be able to handle the losses if you’re just surviving off the wins. Because the losses are severe. You were allowed into that child’s life at their most intimate time, and you were trusted. And that is a gift. And even in death, you learned something from that child that made you a better person and a better nurse.




A big part of a nurse’s job is translation. We have to turn medical language into common language. We explain the ‘why’s.’ Why they can’t eat. Why there is pain. Why their hair is falling out. You never know what those big medical words mean to a child, so we do everything we can to demystify them. If they play sports, we may describe their tumor as a baseball. And everyone knows that baseballs don’t belong in your belly. Ninety percent of them play video games, so sometimes the cancer is a monster. We’ve got to shoot the monster. We’ve got to bomb the monster. But we’re going to work together and get that monster. We’ll use any frame of reference that they understand: their favorite TV show, their favorite book, their favorite toy. And if we have an adolescent who’s a little bit angry, we’ll just shove our foot up the cancer’s ass.




The MDs build the treatment plan. The nurse’s job is to get it done. We’re the ones who are always there, making sure every single moment of every single day is the best it can possibly be. What’s going to take away that nausea? What’s going to take away that pain? How can we convince the doctor to let this kid see some sunshine? We know when the kid has a play at school. We know which massage therapist they love and which member of the family is most likely to persuade them to take their medicine. These kids rely on certain nurses like they’re gold. A lot of time these kids won’t listen to the doctor. But they’ll listen to their nurse.


(6/6) If your child has brain cancer, I can give you some advice. First I would say to you: Oh my gosh! Your child has brain cancer. I’m so sorry that happened to you. I’m sure you’re feeling very sad, but don’t be worried because my mom was sad too. I actually have five words for you: It’s the saddest thing ever. So you can be sad whenever you want. If your child is sad, something you can do is tell them to never give up. If they are getting a needle, you’ll probably feel them squeezing your hand really, really, really tight. Tell them: ‘Don’t worry. This is a one time thing.’ The hardest part will be seeing your child with a line to a machine that gives them weird medications that might hurt and make them sad. Then you can give your child a lot of hugs because that will make them less sad. And your child will say: ‘Don’t worry Mom, I love you and I’m going to make it through this.’ And then you can hug them even more." We are currently holding a fundraiser to help study and cure rare cancers like Gabe’s. So far we’ve raised $50,000 from 1400 donations. That’s a great start. If even one percent of the people who follow this page were to donate, that would be 175,000 donations and the results would be staggering. A relatively tiny amount of us could have a giant impact. So please consider being counted! Rare and specialized cancers like Gabe’s require innovation. There are numerous instances of dedicated researchers making life-saving breakthroughs at Memorial Sloan Kettering with small amounts of money. Please donate here:


(5/6) My biggest challenge? Two words for you: third grade. It’s kind of like second grade but harder. I was a very special student in second grade because I had a brain tumor. A very rare one, actually. I was the only one in the world with this type of brain tumor. Everyone who knew me was shocked! Their heads blew up! I’ve been through a lot of things this past year. But I can tell you, if youget brain cancer, try not to worry! It will be very hard and you will get lots of fevers but you have to be brave. You have to be brave like me because I’m very brave about this thing. And if you don’t know how to be brave, I can teach you. I know the surgery seems scary, but I have four words for you: you’ll be on anesthetics. When you wake up, your head will be wrapped like a mummy and your mom will take a picture and show you. When it’s time to get shots, do a countdown from thirty and tell yourself: ‘Calm down, calm down, calm down.’ Then whenever you’re ready, tell the nurse to go. And if you need more time, ask for more time!" We are currently holding a fundraiser to help study and cure rare cancers like Gabe’s. Almost 1000 people have donated so far. I hope that over the course of the series, more people will consider donating. Rare and specialized cancers like Gabe’s require innovation. And there are numerous instances of dedicated researchers at  making life-saving breakthroughs with small amounts of money. We can make a difference:




(4/6) After the surgery, we thought it was over. We think it’s done. Gabriel is getting better and it’s like nothing happened. His teachers can’t believe it! We’re even planning on going to the beach. But the doctors tell us that they can’t identify the tumor. The surgery was in July. August passes. September passes. Now that the tumor was gone, we were anxious to start treating the cancer, but nobody knows where to start. Every hospital is saying something different. Then finally two hospitals gave the same opinion: Descmoplastic Small Round Blue Cell Tumor. Nobody had ever seen this tumor in the brain before. They told me not to read about it. They told me that every case was different and not to read about it. When you read about it, it’s very bad. Oh my God. This cancer always comes back. And when it comes back, it’s worse. ‘Less than three years,’ it says. Oh my God. What did I do? What did I expose him to? What did I feed him? The chemo is so painful for him. My family tried to talk me out of it. They told me that I’m killing my son with my own hands. But what can I do? There’s nothing I can do. I want to give blood. I want to give bone marrow. But all I can do is watch. It’s the worst show you can imagine, but you have to watch. You’re forced to watch."




(3/6) The doctors gave us peace of mind. They seemed so sure of their profession. They were using all these medical terms and speaking to each other so calmly. They spoke about the tumor like it was a simple puzzle. We tried to explain the surgery to Gabe as if it was a cartoon. He loved cartoons. We told him that there was a black hole that was sucking all the good energy out of his brain. We told him that he was going to be cut a little bit, but we did not tell him how much. I told him that he may have difficulty speaking when he wakes up, but don’t worry, because we’re going to write to Mommy on a notepad. But I’m thinking inside that I’m never going to hear my son speak again. During the surgery, my husband and I just walked around aimlessly for hours and cried. Finally they called and told us they were finished. We went in to see Gabe and he’s speaking words. He’s speaking regular words. My husband is so excited that he’s taking a video. But I’m looking at Gabe and he’s in a fetal position on the table. And I remember thinking that the way he was lying there, he looked like he did when he was born. It was just a bigger version of baby Gabriel. He had been such a healthy, beautiful baby boy. And here he is again. And he’s not well."




(2/6) I didn’t tell my husband right away. I just told him to come meet me at the park, and that’s where I told him. The whole time Gabe was playing nearby. My husband took it very hard. He started crying. He had a panic attack. Our lives had not been easy. It was very difficult for us in Albania. My husband grew up without a father. We decided to come to America alone as teenagers. Neither of us spoke any English. We had no family here. It was very lonely. We came from nothing. We worked very hard and we went to school at night and we taught ourselves English. My husband got a job as a steam worker and I got a job in marketing. We bought a beautiful, sunny one-bedroom apartment. We had recently paid off the mortgage. We could even afford to send Gabe to private school. It felt like we were evolving. We felt like we had finally made it past the hard times. Then the rug was pulled out from under us and everything crumbled. And I didn’t know what to pick up first. Do I comfort my son, who’s about to go through the worst journey of his life? Or my husband? Or myself?




(1/6) Gabe was a perfectly healthy boy. He’d reached all his milestones as a child. He talked early. He walked early. He never got sick except for colds. He did baseball and swimming and kickboxing. Then two years ago he began to have a ‘pins and needles’ feeling in his mouth. Then it grew numb and he had trouble talking. One day the teacher had him read out loud in class and he drooled all over the paper. So I raised a flag with the pediatrician. He thought it was just an allergy, but sent us to a neurologist just in case. The neurologist thought it was just a ‘tick’ and part of a growing phase. But he did an MRI just in case. When the results came in, he asked Gabe to wait outside the room. That’s when I became scared out of my mind. It was the worst possible news. The doctor said it was a tumor the size of a big olive. In the brain."




All doctors have those patients who sit on our shoulder. Their image is always with you. One kid will pop into your head every time you hit a wall - when you encounter a disease that is so unrelenting that you’ve exhausted all therapies and you’re still not even close. One memory will keep you going. It’s a different kid for every doctor. It’s hard to know why they stick with us. I remember one patient that had red hair just like my son. And I remember one five-year-old girl who made me laugh, because when I asked her how she was doing, she told me: ‘I don’t know. You’re the doctor.’ And then there was the boy early in my career who was born without an immune system. He’d already lost two older siblings to the same disease. He lived the first two years of his life in an isolation room with no windows, and his entire exposure to the world was through a black-and-white TV. We gave him a bone marrow transplant, and suddenly his immune system came online. And we took him for a walk in the garden. This boy who had spent his entire life in a windowless room. And a sparrow landed on a bush, and he pointed at it, and said: ‘Bird.’ That moment will always be with me.




Over the next couple of weeks, I’ll be posting stories gathered from the Pediatrics Department of . Obviously these are not going to be easy stories to read. These are war stories. The treatment of cancer can be nearly as violent as the condition itself, and even the doctors will frame their efforts in terms of warfare. But the fight against pediatric cancer is uniquely tragic because the battlefield is the body of a child. So these are definitely war stories. But as with every war, there are heroes. You’ll meet the amazing doctors, nurses, and researchers who have committed their lives to this fight. You’ll meet the moms and dads who refuse to crumble while living out their greatest fear. And most importantly, you’ll meet the reason that everyone is fighting, and the greatest warriors of all—the kids. So yes, these are war stories. But this is also the story of humanity’s bold response to the greatest injustice of nature. And as we learn these stories, we’ll be raising money to play our own small part in the war.




A quick update on the funds we raised last December to help the Syrian refugee families coming to America. With the help of The Compassion Collective, each family has been contacted through their resettlement agencies and have worked out an individualized plan to receive their share of the funds. We wanted to be sure that the money was given in a way that would not negate other benefits and assistance. Some families elected to receive the money right away, others in installments, and some asked that the money be held for future needs. Thanks so much to The Compassion Collective for doing all the organizational work on this—especially Liz Book who really spearheaded the effort. If you haven’t heard of , it’s a group of super-talented authors such as Glennon Melton, Cheryl Strayed, Brene Brown, and Liz Gilbert. It was extremely generous of them to lend their organizational abilities to our fundraiser. Late last year, they also raised $1,000,000 in donations to support refugees, and they are gearing up for another campaign this Mother’s Day. If you are a fan of their literary work, I encourage you to follow along and help them in their charitable endeavors as well.




I started failing all my classes when I was twenty, dropped out of college, hitchhiked around a little bit, and ended up at a Buddhist monastery for six years. My relationship with my teacher was very worshipful at first. He taught me so much: how to meditate, how to wok, how to teach. He seemed to know everything. And he seemed to know more about me than I knew myself. So I completely depended upon him. Then he had a sex scandal. And when that happened, I didn’t know what to do. I couldn’t lean on him anymore. So I moved to the city and got my bachelor’s degree at City College. I’m glad for my time at the monastery. I’m a better person because of it, and it taught me discipline. But I don’t think I’ll ever be idolizing anyone again.




From the moment he could speak, he could discuss."




We started dating shortly after she acquired a stalker—bad start, I know. So she had security with her 24/7. Our first date went great. It was the kind of night that was clearly going to end with a kiss. But I had to kiss her in front of the security guards. It was awkward. It was like our parents were watching. The next morning she knocked on my hotel room door. She was alone. She walked into the room, and said: ‘I can do better.’




I grew up in India where a woman got married, settled down, and kept a house. I never thought I’d do anything different. I lived a very sheltered existence. I went to a British school, then a women’s college, and then I met my husband. I assumed that I’d be taken care of for the rest of my life. But shortly after we came to America, my husband slipped into a coma and lingered for another fifteen years. We had a small child at the time. I’d never worked before, except for a part-time job in the bookshop at the Met. I was a very quiet person. And suddenly I had to make all of the decisions. I had to get a full time job. It was empowering. I learned that I could be fearless, I could be angry, and I could fight. These were three things that I’d never had to do before. I was thinking recently, that if my husband had lived, he might not have liked who I’ve become.


I just had a son.  I imagined stress, no sleep, and total confusion over what to do.  I thought I’d be so tired that I’d be unable to form sentences at work.  And there have been instances of that.  I’ve left the house a few times without my wallet or cell phone.  I’ve been late to a few meetings.  Recently I woke up on an empty train.  But overall it’s been absolutely phenomenal and the most fun I’ve ever had.  He’s incredibly happy all the time.  He smiles all day.  It’s insane.  You should see him laugh.  I almost peed my pants the first time he laughed.  I am sleeping less.  But I’m choosing to sleep less.  I set my alarm for 5 AM so that I can spend an extra hour with him before I go to work.
My partner has ruined my life.  I’ve been with him for six years now.  His mental illness has cost us everything.  We had a three-bedroom townhouse in Pennsylvania.  It wasn’t much, but it was something.  We had two cars.  I had a job working at a call center for the government.  But then he became convinced that we were being poisoned by fracking, and we had to leave everything behind.  At our next apartment, he kicked down the neighbor’s door because he thought someone was trying to get him.  Then he made me drive him to Canada because he thought his mother was a famous actress.  Now we’re homeless.  I don’t sleep more than three hours a night.  Any time you lay down your head, a security guard will come along and make you leave.  I look awful.  I can’t shave.  I can’t even jack off.  I know that sounds bad but I’m still human.  I have needs.  And I’m affection starved.  He gives me no affection.  I tried to kiss a straight friend of mine recently because I’m so affection starved.  But the thing is—I’m all he has.  I do everything for him.  I get his food.  I get his medicine.  I know that I enable him.  But if I leave him, I’m afraid he’ll kill himself.
We met in church as teenagers.  We were best friends at first.  We’d complete each other’s sentences.  We got married two weeks after she graduated from UCLA, and we never stopped moving after that.  We had our first child while we were in law school.  Then we both had to pass the bar.  After that we had to find jobs, and we had a second kid.  At some point we just got into survival mode.  It didn’t feel like we were growing a relationship anymore.  It just felt like we were picking up the pieces of decisions we had made.  We kept telling ourselves that things would get better once life settled down.  We’d say: ‘Let’s just get through law school.  Or let’s just get through finals.  Or let’s just get through this move.  We never communicated things that were bothering us.  After thirteen years, we finally decided that the time was now.  We wanted to finally be what we thought we were going to be while we were dating.  Counseling was hard.  There was a lot of unspoken anger and resentment to unpack.  But we’re so glad we went because things are better now.  And we feel like we’re growing again.
I want to be a scientist so I can invent a potion to turn Pokemon cards into real Pokemons."


We’ve been friends for a long time. Both of us were married for forty years and both of our spouses passed away. A couple years after my husband died, he called me one night and invited me to a dance in New York. He wore a top hat and white tie, but he had a little too much to drink that night, and he fell into a snowdrift while he was walking me home. I couldn’t wait to see him again. The next morning I was sitting in my living room, reading the paper, and thinking: ‘Oh my God. Forty years of marriage. And here I am hoping that a man will call.




I’m forty-eight now. I’ve been dating a woman for over two years. And I’m getting to the point where I probably need to cut her loose or commit. I’ve never been married. I’ve gotten close with two or three women. I actually got as close as City Hall one time. But I’ve always backed down. I guess I thought that I’d eventually meet a woman, and some sort of pathway would open up in my mind, and I’d know that she was the right one. But it hasn’t happened. I’ve never gotten to the point where the thought of marriage doesn’t freak me out. And here I am again. I just spent a wonderful day in the park with this woman. It was lovely. But now my mind jumps to the future. And I worry that there’s something I’m not seeing. I'm afraid that something will reveal itself once we’ve exchanged our vows, and suddenly my life will be worse than when I was alone.




We started off as friends. Then one night we stayed up until 5 AM watching episodes of the Cosby Show spinoff where Denise goes to college. And we started joking about ‘Netflix and chill.’ And I was like, ‘So what kind of Netflix and chill’ are we having tonight?’ And she was like ‘I don’t know.’Then I was like, ‘Want to make out?’


Susie passed away yesterday evening.  She came into my life quite unexpectedly five years ago.  I was photographing in Brooklyn one evening when I saw the coolest little dog sitting on a stoop.  I sat down to pet her, and after a few minutes, her owner told me that he was unable to care for her anymore.  He asked if I could take her.  I was broke at the time.  I was sleeping on a friend’s couch.  And everyone that I asked told me that it was ‘not the right time’ for a dog.  But I was so charmed by Susie, and the whole encounter seemed so fated, that I offered to take her.

It was one of the best decisions I ever made.  Susie was twelve years old at the time and didn’t need much.  I’d never had a dog before.  It was a new experience.  I was introduced for the first time to a dog’s unexplainable and unconditional love.  After a few weeks, it seemed that Susie’s only concern in life was staying as close to me as possible.  There was now a joyous reunion waiting for me at the end of every workday.  And I learned that there are few greater blessings than a wildly happy dog greeting you at the door.

Over the last few years, my fiancé Erin developed her own relationship with Susie.  As many of you know, Erin started a nonprofit called Susie's Senior Dogs, which seeks to place older dogs in loving homes.  Older dogs have the hardest time getting adopted.  Because there is such a demand for young dogs, so many senior dogs are either euthanized or forced to spend the remainder of their lives in a shelter.  Over the past few years, Susie's Senior Dogs has placed several hundred senior dogs into homes.  There is a warm and active community of people who follow the page.  In fact, I think that half the people who come to my book signings are more excited to meet Erin than me.

So it’s been a tough few days, but Erin and I are both very thankful that Susie came into our lives.  She was such a special friend.  She was my introduction to the love of dogs.  And she helped Erin discover her purpose in life.  So in a way she’s going to stick around forever.  I encourage everyone to follow Susie's Senior Dogs, and consider allowing an older dog to change your life as well.


I had cancer when I was fourteen and went through eight treatments of chemotherapy. The doctor told me then that I might have trouble getting pregnant. I had a miscarriage the first time we tried. We decided to wait a few months before trying again, because we were planning our wedding, and I didn’t want to be showing during the ceremony. But then we went to Rome for his birthday. And everything about him was annoying me. So he jokingly said, ‘I think you’re pregnant.’ We went and bought a pregnancy test but everything was in Italian, so we had no idea what it meant. So we actually learned that we were pregnant from Google Translate.




I was having second thoughts about the marriage almost immediately. I was thinking about asking for an annulment, but then we got pregnant. So I stuck it out for twenty years. I did really well for myself during that time. I was making $100,000 per year as a lawyer. That was a lot of money in the sixties. We lived on the finest street in Charlotte. But I was still miserable. So the moment the kids were grown, I took off. I left my wife everything. I left her the house, the bank account, the Mercedes, everything. I didn’t even say goodbye. I just dictated a note to my secretary, called the Rolls Royce dealership, and told them to pick up the car at the airport. I flew to New York with nothing but $800, screaming: ‘Free at last, free at last, free at last!’


I want to be an actor and produce plays.  And because my parents let me live at home, I can afford to make little or no money while I participate in tiny, regional productions.  My parents have been so supportive.  Because I don’t have to pay rent, it frees me up to work part-time and spend extra time practicing.  And I do spend a lot of time practicing.  But I’m in my late twenties, and in many ways I still feel like a child.  It’s hard to not associate adulthood with self-sufficiency.  I have friends who are far enough along in their careers to get their own apartments and build their own lives.  Recently I’ve been thinking a lot about finding a girlfriend.  And I’m questioning why anyone would want to attach herself to me when I don’t have much to offer besides parents who are very supportive.  I guess I’m worried that I’ve hit my peak.  I’m afraid that I’ve reached the point where I’ll always be and I’ll never be able to support my parents like they’ve supported me.


I moved three hours away from home. It doesn’t sound like much, but it was the hardest thing I’ve ever done. There were only 15,000 people in the town where I grew up. There was a village mentality. It’s the kind of place that nobody leaves. I knew everyone that I saw on the street. We’d all gone to the same school. We all worked nearby. We’d all go to the same pub at night. It felt very safe. When my job gave me the option of transferring closer to London, I thought that I had to take the chance. And I’d just broken up with my boyfriend so there really wasn’t anything holding me back. It’s been over two years now. I didn’t think I would make it. I assumed that I’d move back home. But I ended up building a new life. I’ve got my own place. New friends. A new boyfriend. My life isn’t better or worse. It’s just different. And that’s what I wanted.




Honestly, I liked her more when she was drinking. She was a very high-functioning alcoholic. She was spontaneous. We’d do unplanned, crazy shit like drive to the ocean and look at whales. But once she got sober, all of that went away, and ritual became very important to her. You couldn’t talk to her for an hour without hearing a mantra from AA. And she got very Catholic. She started celebrating religious holidays and going to talks. I tried to participate. I even went on this trip to Spain where we followed the path of a saint. Everyone in the tour group seemed to be so inspired. We’d stop at these small churches and everyone would contemplate and pray. She was happy. She’d say things like: ‘This feels so real to me.’ But I didn’t feel it. It’s not that I felt disdain. I wanted to feel it. I just couldn’t. I knew then that our connection had been frayed. Because so much of travel is sharing an experience. And we weren’t sharing the same experience anymore.




He’s much calmer than I am. I get offended a lot. I always imagine that I’m being insulted or demeaned in some way. I got an email last week and I didn’t like the tone, so it really set me off. I spent thirty minutes writing my response. It was a real tirade. He saw me typing furiously, and he just reached across the coffee table, placed his hand on mine, and said: ‘Let it go.’ And I deleted the whole thing. He’s just like Elsa.




I got arrested in 2009 for protesting army recruitment. Then I got arrested in 2011 for protesting foreclosures after Hurricane Sandy. And I'm about to get arrested again, because on May 14th we're going to Albany to protest fossil fuels."


I was a cop for twenty-one years.  It’s all I ever wanted to do.  My father was a cop, and so were both my grandfathers.  But I want him to do something else.  I’d like him to be able to do a higher level, white-collar kind of thing.  You just see so much as a cop.  It’s not emotionally clean.  So we’re trying to give him all the extra things: tutors, lessons, things like that.  I had to hustle my whole life because I wasn’t a good student.  And I want things to be different for him.  If his grades start to dip, we try to show concern right away.  It’s hard to know the right amount of pressure to put on him.  That’s the hardest question.  We discuss it every day.  Luckily he's made it easy on us so far.  Whenever we aim him in the right direction, he runs toward it.
I’m graduating from Columbia with a Masters’ in Public Health.  I want to stay in New York for another few years, but then I want to go back to Texas.  My family is from a ‘drive-through’ town off Route 66.  It’s tempting to stay here in New York because there are better opportunities.  The Department of Health is very developed, and there’s so much funding from the government, and the services are so extensive.  I feel like there’s so much I can learn here.  But then I feel like I need to bring it back home.  Texas is a big ole place.  People are spread out.  And so many of them don’t have access to the services they need.
Thirty-five years ago I was a staff writer for the New Yorker, and I was working on a biography of Oliver Sacks.  I had about fifteen notebooks full of interviews.  We were meeting for dinner two or three nights per week.  But at some point he asked if I could leave out the fact that he was gay.  And I couldn’t do it.  His sexuality tied him up in knots.  And I thought those knots helped explain why he became such an amazing neurologist.  So I agreed to stop writing, but we remained good friends.  Shortly before he died last year, he called me and asked me to finish the book.  So I’m trying to figure out where to begin.  Thirty years ago I was going 100 mph in an aircraft carrier, and I was asked to stop on a dime.  Now I’ve got to figure out how to start it back up.
I’m a psychotherapist to some of the most successful people in Holland.  My clients tend to come to me around the age of forty.  They’ve accomplished so much, but they’re still driven by this fear that they’re not going to make it.  And they start to ask themselves: ‘Is this going to be the rest of my life?’
I drive an MTA bus.  I don’t want to do that for the rest of my life.  I’ve got to wake up at 4 am everyday.  That’s not working for me.  So I’m trying to get my music off the ground.  I’ve been handing out these CDs all day.  But it’s tough.  I’ve only sold three so far.  But one of the guys who bought a CD was from Algeria.  So now I get to say that they play my music in Algeria.
I stayed in a bad relationship for three years.  I was sharing a man with someone else.  He wouldn’t answer his phone at certain times of the night.  Or he was always working late.  It was three years of letting him feel good at my expense.  Three years of feeling ‘less than.’  I kept telling myself that I could be a better girlfriend.  Or that I could fix it.  Or that I should give it more time.  I was down to 108 pounds from all the stress.  I was constantly clenching my phone.  I was always angry and arguing and serious.  Finally one night the other woman got a hold of his phone, and she called me, and started asking me all these questions.  And I decided that I couldn’t live like that anymore.  I walked away.  That was a year ago.  My spirit feels so much lighter now.  I’ve gained back twenty pounds.  And I’m laughing again.  During those years, it took a joke to make me laugh.  Now I can laugh at anything.


I’ve moved home to live with my parents while my dad battles esophageal cancer. I think my being home has helped my mom even more than my dad. She had stopped taking care of herself. There’s this feeling of helplessness when someone you love has cancer. Two weeks can pass between appointments, and there’s always this feeling that there’s something more you should be doing. For the past two years, Mom always put Dad first. She lost weight. She stopped doing things she cared about. So I’ve started cooking with her every night. That’s our time together. And I’m pushing her to start crafting again. And to go get her nails done every once in awhile. Last night I stayed home while she went to a Broadway show with her friends. And my dad’s happier too. He doesn’t care how Mom’s nails look, but he’s happier knowing that he’s not stopping her from doing things for herself.


Today in microfashion


I’ve had serious problems with authority my entire life. The first person I tried to piss off was my mother. I got an Ivy League education and then became a street cop for six years. I’d always been a knee jerk liberal. I was one of those kids screaming ‘off the pigs’ at protest marches. And then I ended up joining the force. I think it should be mandatory for everyone. We all have to take turns being the hall monitor in elementary school. I think everyone should have to be a cop. It’s the ultimate social work. It’s the cop who has to step in when everything else has broken down. It’s where the rubber meets the road. It’s where conflict bubbles to the point of needing resolution, and somebody has to step in and protect the group welfare. Ninety percent of the job is family disputes. It’s walking into a room and keeping people from killing each other. Yet everyone hates cops. Everyone loves the fire department, and everyone hates cops. That’s why I think everyone should have to do it. Everyone should have to make an arrest. Everyone should have to feel the fear of trying to apprehend someone who doesn’t want to go to jail. Everyone should experience the ‘fight or flight’ response when flight isn’t an option. It breaks my heart to see all the hate toward cops. Are there hateful, racist cops? Sure. And they should be punished. But I’ve worked in just about every industry. And I didn’t find any more racism in the police department than I’ve found in boardrooms and retail stores. Before I joined the force, I used to think that all cops were The Man. Now I know that the cops are all of us. Just a bunch of human beings trying to figure out how to play the game. And I think everyone should have to do it.




We didn’t exactly try. We just stopped trying to prevent it and it happened. I’ve barely begun processing it. The tests came back positive, but it didn’t feel real. So I went to the doctor on Friday and it’s definitely real. The due date is December 5th. That feels really real. But other than that, nothing feels different. It’s like this unreal thing that’s happening to me. I am drinking decaf coffee right now. So that’s different.


I work twelve hours a day as a patient care technician.  I don’t treat myself like I should.  But today’s my day off.  So I’m trying to take care of myself.  I got my nails done.  I’m on the way to church.  I’ve been singing along to my gospel and reggae.  There’s no need to be in tune when you’re praising God.  I’ve been singing and crying and laughing to myself.  No crazy people bothered me on the train today.  They think I’m one of them.  I’m covered.


My daughter’s personality started changing when she turned seven. She began to gain weight. She acted out in school. She grew more defiant. My mother had died around that time, and they had been close, so I assumed that maybe it had something to do with that. She’d always tell me that she hated her stepfather. He was strict with her, but I thought that was a good thing. And he treated me so well. He was the fucking perfect husband. My daughter finally told me when she was twelve years old. We’d just moved to Long Island, and the two of us were sitting in a car outside our new house, and my husband was standing on the porch, and she pointed at him, and said: ‘You know he molests me.’ I felt so guilty. For five years I’d let it happen. He fucking knew how much I loved her. She was the whole reason I got sober. I’ve been trying to compensate my whole life. I could never discipline her after that. Now she has substance abuse problems so I’m raising my granddaughter myself. I’m still trying to compensate. We live in a little tiny studio but I try to do everything for her that I couldn’t do for my daughter. I go to every PTA meeting. Every activity. Girl Scouts, Disney, Universal. I’m picking her up from a camping trip right now.


We met in our early twenties on a boat called the SS United States.  We were sailing to France for study abroad programs.  We met in the third class bar.  I kept getting seasick and hadn’t slept.  He had hair like Che Guevara.  Curly lumps of it.  I wish I had a picture.  And he was wearing one of those little scarfs.  He had to look more French than the French.
I’m working on my second doctorate and doing clinical research in HIV.  I’ve always wanted to be a tenure track professor, but I’ve been questioning that lately.  I imagined that one day I’d get to a place where I can do the research that I want to do.  But I’m seeing now that it’s more about doing the research that will get funded.  I’m noticing a lot of disenchantment among my senior mentors.  They don’t get to be as innovative as they’d like.  Their primary task seems to be sustaining the institution.  It’s not about doing the research that they think will make the most impact.  It’s about going for the most likely money.  It’s publish or perish.  Fund or get fired.  And education suffers as well.  I love to teach, and I’ve always thought that teaching would be a big part of the process.  But it’s not emphasized.  Because teaching is paid for by tuition.  It’s ‘money in, money out.’  But research funding comes from outside the school.  It’s new money.


I was miserable being a widow. But I knew it was going to be hard to meet someone new. There is so much space junk out there. And a lot of older men are looking for a younger woman. But I had great hopes. I did my visualizations. I pictured a nice, younger, good-looking man. Every morning I wrote down just what I wanted. Then I found him on one of those dating sites. I was a little worried at first because his profile said: ‘I’m back, ladies.’ I thought that maybe he was a womanizer. But he also quoted a psalm in his profile, and it was a good psalm, so I sent him a smile emoji. We started chatting and decided to meet at the Metropolitan Museum. I walked up the stairs and there he was! Suit! Tie! Overcoat! So much better than his picture! We spent six hours at the wine bar. They had to kick us out. We started seeing each other regularly. I felt like I was sixteen. Nothing could bother me for months. I couldn’t eat. I couldn’t sleep. Everything worked out just like I imagined. It will have been eight years together, this July.


I never really felt like ‘one of the guys’ when I was growing up.  I felt a lack of acceptance.  I wasn’t the guy who was playing on the team, or going to IHOP after prom, or getting invited to birthday bashes.  I’m not saying that I was a complete loner.  I was relatable—just never enough to be included.  I tried out for the football team in high school.  I put everything into it.  I got a trainer and everything.  I was going to play, start, and become that person.  But it never quite happened.  And in a way, I still feel like I’m trying to get there.  I just got into the grad school of my dreams.  I interned at the White House last summer.  I’m joining Teach For America.  Part of me still feels that if I can elevate my image to a certain level, then people will be attracted to me.  And I’m trying to get beyond that.  I’ve been listening to this sermon lately called "Getting To The Core.'  And that’s exactly what I’m trying to do.  I want to wake up knowing that it will be OK, no matter what I accomplish.


I emigrated from Liberia at the age of eighteen, and a lovely Jewish family took me in and helped fund my education. Their names were Anne and William Rothenberg. They had never even met me before. But they allowed me to live with them and introduced me to everyone as their daughter. They would never explain beyond that—it was always just ‘our daughter.’ It was so fun to see the confusion on people’s faces. They’ve both passed away. But a few years ago I started a scholarship fund for Liberian children, and I named it after them.


Today in microfashion
We go to the races all the time.  We don’t care about the horses.  But it's the only place where you can get dressed up and drink champagne before noon.
We met while he was renovating a house for me and my ex-husband.  My ex-husband wasn’t interested in helping.  He kept saying: ‘Go with Howard to pick out the windows.’  And: ‘Go with Howard to pick out the doors.’   Well, Howard and I were getting along so well, my ex-husband eventually said: ‘Just go with Howard.’
Today in microfashion
I was a bit of a loner before I had her.  I wasn’t a social person.  I stayed away from people because I thought that everybody had a plot or a scheme.  But she’s taught me how innocent people are when they start out.  I mean, sometimes she’ll butter me up because she wants candy or a cookie.  But then other times she’ll just hug me for no reason.
I was a police officer in Baltimore for 21 years.  I was addicted to heroin the entire time I was on the force.  A lot of the guys had their addictions.  I don’t think people understand the fear involved in the job.  We were scared all the time.  Baltimore was the murder capital of the world.  It was tremendously stressful.  I never used needles.  Just powder.  I was too scared of needles.  My partner knew about it.  One time he walked in the bathroom while I was using.  He told me: ‘The moment I feel like you’re putting my life in danger, I’m turning you in.’  I did feel guilty when I was arresting drug offenders.  But I always told myself: ‘You’re doing them a favor.’  One morning I looked in the mirror and saw death.  I had no soul.  So I made myself quit.  I took two weeks leave, locked myself in a hotel room, and quit cold turkey.  It was the darkest two weeks of my life.  I can’t talk about it.  But I never used again.  My wife was never able to quit, though.  She committed suicide six years ago.  I woke up one morning and she’d been dead for seven hours, right next to me.


My friend convinced me to go to church last weekend for the first time in five years. At the end of the service, the pastor told everyone to line up at the altar for a one-on-one prayer. I was the fifth in line. Everyone else got short prayers. Just a few seconds and they were done. But the pastor looked at me with a weird face. He announced that he had a vision of me getting locked up. Then he had the whole church form a circle, and he put his hand on my face like this, and he started shaking my head for fifteen minutes. He said he was trying to cancel my destiny. My friend was laughing and filming the whole thing. I’ve got to admit though—it’s got me nervous. I’m going back this week to see if I can get some more details.




After I finally learned the ropes, they changed all the rules."




I graduated fifteen years ago with a degree in theater, but I wasn’t really doing anything with it. I was working at a theater box office. I was writing just enough so that I could tell people I was a ‘playwright.’ I’d tell my wife I was going to the coffee shop to write, but I’d end up just staring at the screen. I was about to give up completely. The city has a way of crowning young geniuses that makes you feel old. But my wife always had an unending belief that I had something to offer. It got to the point where even that belief was hard to hear because it made me feel like I was letting her down. Finally a friend of mine convinced me to do a small reading at his theater. He just kept bothering me about it. And when I finally agreed, so many other people stepped forward to help. I wasn’t living in the vacuum I thought I was. Once I lit the fire, people came and sat around it. So many people were willing to lend their craft to my idea. I’ve put on four plays in the past three years. They’ve all been very small productions. I’m much more frantic and stressed now. I lay awake at night wondering if I’m going to sell any tickets. But at least my life has urgency and purpose. My wife is proud of me. Though now I’m sure she wishes I wasn’t so absentminded. And that I’d remember to close the front door. And that our living room wasn’t always filled with props.


I'm going to Matthew's birthday party. He loves to play trains with me."




I help maintain properties for absentee landlords. I think most people imagine landlords to be rich guys on Long Island. But most of my clients only own one or two properties. A lot of times they were inherited. Part of my job is helping to get squatters out of the buildings. There are professional squatters out there. You can’t even call them criminals. They know the laws and they’re working within the system. If you catch somebody breaking into your house that’s ‘breaking and entering.’ But if you happen to live out of state, and somebody breaks into your house and you don’t notice for six months, then that person becomes your tenant. It doesn’t matter if you gave them permission or not. If you want to evict them, you have to go through the legal system, which is very expensive. So it’s usually cheaper to pay the squatters off. The laws themselves aren’t bad. They were enacted to keep predatory landlords from evicting people without due process. But like all laws, there are people who have figured out how to abuse them. I have one squatter who has been living rent free in an old building for six years. He hasn’t paid a dime. He’s well dressed. He’s always very polite and professional when he answers the door. But we’re offering him $80,000 to leave and he’s asking for more.


I got in trouble because I hit my classmate during our math exam because he was calling me names like he always does. The teacher said: ‘Why did you hit him?’ And I said: ‘Because he called me frog face.’ And then I had to sit alone for ten minutes. And then when I went home I got in trouble but Mommy gave me one more chance and next time if someone calls me frog face I’m just going to tell the teacher.




Today in microfashion




I turned thirty-five recently. Everything is one big question for me right now. My dog died in January. I quit my job. I chopped off my hair. I got in a huge fight with my boyfriend last night and now I don’t know what’s going to happen. I feel like I’m about to fall apart. I’ve never been the type of girl who thought too much about kids, or dreamed about her wedding day, or thought about her wedding dress. But I’m thirty-five now. And I can’t help but wonder if it's ever going to happen. And when is it going to happen? And who is it going to happen with? I’ve been a bartender since the age of eighteen. I got used to it. It was safe. I couldn't mess up. There’s only one way to make a Manhattan. And the whole reason I quit my job was to pull the rug out from under myself. I wanted to use my cosmetology degree and pursue a career in hair styling. But I’ve interviewed with several salons now, and nothing has come of it. I’m really losing my self-confidence. I feel like everything is crashing down around me. I think I spent seventeen years stuck as a bartender because I was so afraid of feeling like this.




My first wife Eileen passed away suddenly when she was 48. I was in a fog for a year or so. We didn’t have any children together. And I’m just not good at meeting people. I don’t have that personality. I’m not assertive enough. The only reason I’d been able to meet Eileen was because we worked at the same office. The funeral parlor held an event once a month, where you could go and just talk. That helped a little. But other than that I was pretty lonely. The only real hobby I had was Irish dancing. I tried to keep it up, but it reminded me too much of Eileen, so I quit. I discovered walking by accident. It was a fluke. Somebody left a brochure at the office for something called the Appalachian Mountain Club. It was run by volunteers. They’d organize walks in the Catskills. I started going on the weekends. It’s not like they were hugely difficult, but it felt great to accomplish something. And it was really conducive to meeting people. There’s not much else to do when you’re walking next to somebody. I loved it so much that I started travelling to other countries and doing walking tours. I met my current wife on a tour outside of Florence.




I teach soccer to children under ten. Right now I’m sketching out some drills for the four year olds. We try to do things in a way where the kids feel like they’re making a difference. For one of the drills, we imagine that we’re building a snow village. For another drill we have to destroy a pirate ship. Then there’s a drill with ghost pirates. And another one with space pirates. Lots of pirates. We want to keep things politically correct because the parents watch the practice. Attacking pirates is something that everyone can get behind.




I’m just working on universal peace and getting everybody to love each other. I’m an official brother man. I’m the one. Well, I’m one of the ones. There are all kinds of brother mans: black, white, Indian. A brother man is somebody who helps when people need help. A brother man will stand up and say: ‘That’s not right.’ A lot of women are brother mans too. But we don’t call them brother mans. We call them sisters.




Achievement has always been a drug for me. Maybe it’s because I was a middle child and would do anything for recognition. I remember being a child and sitting at the piano for hours, with tennis balls under my hands, trying to get the right finger positions. Or trying to memorize more songs than my older sister. I got pregnant in college and gave birth to my son during my sophomore year. I was an unwed mother. I didn’t want to be a statistic. I wanted to achieve something. I wanted to prove that I could succeed and raise a great kid. I graduated on time. I was so proud of myself. I never accepted any help from anyone. I went into sales and I threw myself into work. Every time I reached a goal, it was like a drug. There was a sense of euphoria every time I hit my numbers. For the last few years, I’ve been working sixty to eighty hours a week. I led a sales team of thirty people. But my company got acquired and three weeks ago I got laid off. And I’m thinking that maybe it’s time to take a pause. For my whole life, it’s just been me and my child. And he turned out great. I’ve laid a strong foundation. I think it’s time to finally realize that things will be OK.




I don’t enjoy observing people as much as I used to. Everyone acts like they’re on stage. People used to come to The Village sheepishly. Nobody was sure if they belonged. We didn’t know if we were artists. These days everyone walks around like they’re contributing something. There’s no angst anymore. There’s too much certainty. And that’s a shame. Because all the best art comes from people who feel like they don’t belong. Art is a way of proving your existence. When I was a young man, a person that I respected told me that I was an artist. It was one of the worst things that could have happened to me. I stopped walking into museums or galleries with a sense of awe. I walked in feeling like an ‘artist.’ My arms would be crossed. If I liked a piece, it was ‘good.’ If I didn’t like a piece, it was ‘bad.’ I didn't feel vulnerable anymore. I lost my humility. And that’s when growth stops.




Right now I’m an assistant at a recording studio, which basically means cleaning the bathrooms, doing prep work, and sharpening pencils. I just have to prove that I’ll go out of my way to get things done. Then each week I get a few hours of practice time when the studio is empty. Next I’ll become an assistant engineer, and I’ll actually get to sit in on the recording sessions. The ultimate goal is to become a producer. Audio is a bit of a boys’ club. There were only three girls in my program at college, and there’s only one other woman at my studio now. I’m not sure why more women don’t pursue it. It’s perfect for me. I’m not much of a performer but I love music. So working in audio allows me to help create music without having to get on stage. And there's plenty of opportunity. Every Taylor Swift song has thirty or forty people behind it.




I was working as a school safety officer when I met her. She was a teacher. But she kept working her way up. She became a principal. She went to work in the central office. She got her doctorate. Eventually she became the highest-ranking black woman in New York education. She was always taking that next step. I was working as a custodian when we got married. She was making five times more than me. It bothered me at first. It took some counseling to convince me that she hadn’t ‘settled’ for me. I’d been raised on the idea that the man was supposed to provide. But eventually I came around to the idea that money wasn’t the only way to provide. I could support her by doing chores, or taking the kids to school, or picking her up from the airport. Her work benefited all of us, so I could help provide by making her job easier. And eventually she inspired me to want more for myself. She’s the one that convinced me to go back to college.




I didn’t go to college until I was fifty. I was working as a custodian and it just got tiresome. You could find me in the exact same place, at the exact same time, every single day. Clean the halls, clean the classrooms, clean the bathroom. I wasn’t feeling fulfilled. I started going to college classes on the nights and weekends. It was difficult because I was always tired. There’d be times when I didn’t want to do an assignment or I didn’t want to go to school because it was raining. But my professors kept telling me: ‘You’re not looking for a job anymore. You’re looking for a career.’ I graduated five years ago with my BA. Then 2.5 years later I got my Masters. Now I’m a parent coordinator at the same school where I worked as a custodian. I get to counsel parents about how their children can get the most out of school. My confidence has doubled. I used to be unsure about speaking up, because I didn’t feel qualified to offer my opinion, but now I’ll stop parents on the street just to make sure that their child is on the right track. Some people in my position get stressed when they’re given a heavy workload, like: ‘Why do I have to do this?’ I always think: ‘I get to do this.’ I’ve been working in the Department of Education for thirty years, so I could retire next year with benefits. But I don’t want to. Because I love my job. Every day is different.




I went to every march and protest there was when I was young. I had a peace sign on my little yellow Volkswagen. I remember lying down on the Long Island Expressway in seventy-something to protest Kent State. Crazy, I know. But we thought that would end the war. I guess it did in a way. Once I was arrested at a protest in Washington. I don’t even remember exactly what we were protesting. But there were so many of us that they herded us into RFK stadium. I remember those crowds in Washington. You looked around and all you could see were people who agreed with you. Zillions of buses on I-95 all going to the same place. And it really made me think that the world was changing. But I was living in a bubble. All my friends were Jewish, middle-class, and educated. I didn’t even know anyone who owned a gun. I thought everyone wanted peace, and a better environment, and that nobody hated anyone. Then Nixon got elected using his Southern Strategy. He tapped into so much hatred and racism. And I realized: ‘My God. People are fucked up.’ Then my generation started marrying, having kids, and started caring less about the world. And probably me too. You can’t help it really. You have to become more self-involved. You only have so much energy you can expend in the world.




He’s my nephew. I watch him two or three days a week while my sister is at work. Last night we went to see a play and today we’re just running errands. It’s nice to be an uncle because I can enjoy his company without feeling the burden of providing for him. We have a lot of fun. He’s got his own sarcastic sense of humor. He’s very inquisitive. He’s always asking about things. He’ll notice if people on the street are feeling bad, and he’ll point them out. It really forces me to be present.




I want to be an engineer because you get to mess around with technology and help people. But first I need to get better at long division. One thing I’d like to do is make cheaper prosthetics for people in the army. One day I was bored so I googled them and saw that they cost $3500. Maybe I can make them the same way but with recycled materials.




We had five or six miscarriages before we had our daughter. She was a twin, but the other one miscarried. So we call her our miracle baby. I was forty when she was born. We were close in every way. We’d always go camping and hiking together. She’s always loved animals and creatures. When she was little, she’d always pick up snakes and frogs and insects. She begged us for a dog, and when we finally got her one, she called it her ‘sister.’ Now she’s in vet school in Ohio. She sends me pictures all the time. She delivered twin goats last week. I’m getting to the point where I’d like to retire, but I’m going to keep working until she’s in a place where she feels secure. Then I can finally relax. We paid for her undergrad already. She took out loans for vet school, and we’ve agreed she’s going to pay them back herself. But you know, just in case, I’m going to keep working until she feels secure. Then I can relax.




I distribute newspapers. I only planned on working for a few months after I graduated high school, but that turned into three years. I don’t want to be stuck in a dead end job my whole life. I should go to college. I just have a hard time following through. The moment any little thing goes wrong, I just put it off. I don’t know, maybe I’m depressed. When I was a kid, I’d stay up all night messing with software. I’d download a program, change the source code, and try to run it. I just wanted to see what would happen. If it didn’t work, I’d keep trying. I loved it. It was fun. Sometimes I’d stay up all night. Recently I tried to do it again, but nothing felt fun anymore. Everything just feels like work.




Nobody knows that I smoke so I made sure to walk a couple blocks from the hotel. I’m trying to calm myself. Our annual general meeting is tonight and I’m in charge of the whole thing. I’ve been planning it for months. I took a long time off to raise my kids, and I’ve only been back working full time for a year. I want to make a good impression. Our organization has never really had a woman in leadership before, so it’s a big deal. And it’s a big deal for me. This isn’t about my husband or my kids. It’s something just for me that I can embrace fully. And I want to succeed. I want my children to know that I’m Mommy, but I’m still myself.




I thought I would thrive here. I’ve got an MBA and a Masters in Engineering. I worked for a major real estate developer back in Brazil. I was in charge of land acquisitions. They would tell me: ‘Bruno, go find opportunities for us.’ I’d locate good properties and then negotiate a price. I generated a lot of revenue. I felt powerful. When I spoke to rich people and politicians, I’d feel like their equal. Not in an arrogant way. But I did not feel inferior when I spoke to them. Coming to New York has really challenged my confidence. I applied to over fifty companies when I arrived. Maybe one hundred. But nobody hired me. I have a new daughter coming in August, so now I’m trying to work as a real estate broker. But that has been very difficult too. I’ve only closed one deal so far, and I split that with another broker. Maybe it’s because my English is not perfect. Recently I offended a wealthy lady by suggesting she clean her apartment before showing it. I showed her some dust and she told me to never come back. That was really tough for me because I was really proud of my people skills. And now it seemed that even those had left me. But I think that things are finally beginning to turn around. I have two closings scheduled this month. And yesterday I spent all day with a lady from China, and she barely spoke English, but at the end of the day, she told me: ‘I trust you.’




I graduated last May with an accounting degree and moved to the city. But four months had passed and I didn’t have a job yet. I’d probably sent out my resume to thirty different places. And I couldn’t afford to keep waiting for people to call me back. So I went to the strip with all the car dealerships, and started going door-to-door to see if they had any openings in accounting. I’ve always loved cars. I used to always read Consumer Reports with my dad. So I thought it would be a good fit. The lady at BMW was a bit standoffish. Then I went to Audi. They were great. Super welcoming. But they didn’t have any positions at the moment. Then I got to Jaguar/Land Rover which was my first choice, so I was working up to it— and they sat me down right there for an interview. I was there all afternoon, then they said: ‘We like what we see. Can you start tomorrow?’ I ran outside and called my parents. My dad was so proud of me. I was so proud of myself.




Pleasing people is a huge drive. Any artist who tells you otherwise is either selfish or autistic. Art is a communication, and it’s not incompatible with your integrity to desire an audience. A public performance is a miracle. You never know who’s watching, but you feel a communion between yourself, the audience, and the composer who wrote the notes two hundred years ago. But fuck the notes. The notes are not important. They were the composer’s only means of communicating. The important thing is what’s between the notes and behind the notes. My job as a pianist is to interpret. Why did the composer put that note there? I need to understand the moment preceding the note. And when that happens when I can reach back two hundred years and connect to a composer’s humanity, even if I’m completely alone, it’s the same feeling of communion as when I perform in front of an audience.




I’m looking to establish a solid relationship with somebody. But it’s hard for me to imagine it happening. I’m not a kid anymore. I don’t have a home. I don’t have a heck of a lot to offer. Plus it’s been a long time since I’ve had any sort of relationship, so I’ve kind of lost track of how to deal with all that. I work at a sales center so I’m surrounded by people all day, elbow-to-elbow. It’s not so bad then. But then I go home, fix dinner, and bang—it all shuts off. That’s when I realize that I’m not in the situation that I want to be in. And I’m not sure how to get out of it.




I’m in charge of international expansion for one of the largest consulting firms in the cannabis industry. Not only are we going to save the economy, we’re going to hit the reset button on human collective compassion. The only bombs we should be dropping in Iraq are weed bombs. Calm the fuck down, people.




My kids are twelve and five. I want them to grow into good people despite all the negative influence out there. I really do think that only a small minority of people are jerks. But they all seem to be on TV.




We met at summer camp in Maine. The first time I saw him, he was doing a fully clothed cannonball into the pool. We had our first kiss while lying on a trampoline. We’re going back to the same camp to get married this summer. We’re totally camping it up. All the guests are sleeping in cabins. We’re having campfires, smores, ring toss, ping pong, and a scavenger hunt.




The kids have moved out. It’s like we were in a routine for twenty-five years, and now it’s come to an end. Suddenly it’s just the two of us. There’s nothing else to focus on. It’s been a rediscovery process. So we just bought some hiking backpacks. We’re going travel the world, and we’re not planning ahead.
We married when I was nineteen.  I was young.  She was a bit older, and I was fine doing things her way.  Things were good for the first ten or fifteen years.  Then I remember looking around one day and realizing that there wasn’t a single piece of furniture in the house that I’d picked out.  And suddenly I stopped answering all her commands with, ‘Yes dear,’ ‘Yes, dear,’ ‘Yes,dear.’  And that’s when the fighting started.  Eventually we were fighting about everything.  We argued for six months about whether to put track lighting in the kitchen.  We hardly ever talked toward the end.  We’d sit in the same room and not speak a word unless it was a snide comment.  And forget about sex.  She didn’t believe in that anymore.  It got so bad that I’d literally stay in the office all night to avoid going home.  I’m sure if you asked my ex-wife though, she won’t tell you about the ten years that sucked.  She’ll tell you about when I got a girlfriend and moved out of the house.
My wife first got breast cancer in 1999.  Then it came back last year, and it’s in the bones now.  I was a mess last year.  Any time I wasn’t busy, I’d just start crying uncontrollably.  Then I handed it over to God.  I actually spoke to him, and said: ‘It’s all yours.’  And I’ve felt better since then.  We’re hopeful.  We know somebody whose bone cancer got so bad that her bones were breaking, and last month she tested completely clear.  So we’re hopeful.  It’s made me a better person in a way.  I want her time to be as good as possible, so whenever there’s a confrontation, I don’t push it like I used to.  I’ll just back away from it.  Even if she’s wrong.  I’ll back away and we’ll revisit it later when everyone is calm.


I always wanted to be someone in the fashion industry. Maybe a stylist for the magazines. Instead I’m working as an office assistant at a pharmaceutical company. Though I must say, I think the office looks better because of me. I’ve been handing out tips. People are sprucing up a bit more. Some of the ladies are trying new lipsticks. We’re loosening up.




I was a weird kid. I loved vintage clothes. I assumed that if I wore a 1950’s yellow sundress and matching jacket on the first day of school, everyone in sixth grade would love me. When I got to high school, I realized that all the other weird kids were in theater, so I started spending all my free time in the theater department. I was the costume designer. And by costume designer, I mean the person who organized the boxes of free shit people gave us.




We had to leave Russia eight years ago with two suitcases and our baby. My husband was a journalist. He was making reports about Chechnya. His only crime was telling the truth. The KGB came to our house and took all of our papers. They took our citizenship. We had to leave the country with Red Cross travel documents. We had to start over. Neither of us could speak English. My husband was an important journalist in Russia, but here he fixes swimming pools. Now he has big muscles but he’s very sad. I am very proud of myself. I was 30 years old when I came to here. I felt very alone. I had nothing. But I taught myself English. I taught myself to drive. The Metropolitan Opera gave me a job as a stitcher in the costume shop. They gave me a chance even though I didn’t speak English. I remember after a few weeks of working here, one of my coworkers gave me a dress that didn’t fit her anymore. It was the first time that I did not feel separate from this country. It felt like I belonged.


My parents were teenagers when they had my brother and me.  My mother abandoned us early on.   My father told us she was manic-depressive.  I remember going to the public library with my brother when I was nine or ten, trying to find out what ‘manic depressive’ meant.  Mom came in and out of our lives over the next few years.  She never stayed long.  My father wasn’t much better.  He was hardly ever home.  My brother and I had to raise ourselves.  School was my only outlet.  I did everything: dance team, student council, honors society, even powerlifting.  I was the first from my family to go to college.  I went to graduate school at Columbia, and now I’m a college counselor for low-income students.  I don’t talk to either of my parents.  My mom sends me texts every once in awhile, but I don’t answer.  She likes to imagine that she played a part in my accomplishments.  She has pictures of me all over her office.   She tells her coworkers all about me as if she’d been part of my life.  And I don’t want her to have that satisfaction.  Because it was all in spite of her.  Not because of her.
I was married for 25 years and had five children, but I allowed myself to make decisions based on emotional glitches.  I had affairs.  But they were affairs of the heart.  I think I had a hunger to see myself as a great man in someone else’s eyes.  My wife was a fine person, and she still is, but after 25 years of marriage things become settled.  And when somebody else comes along and makes you feel like something special—it’s like catnip.  You want more of it.  You want to say: ‘Let’s get lunch sometime.’  But in the end, you are what you are no matter how somebody makes you feel.  It’s just a feeling.  And I wish I hadn’t chased it.
I didn’t start running until I was 51 years old.  I was a wimp at the time.  A nothing.  My marriage had fallen apart.  I was only seeing my children on the weekends.  I wasn’t sleeping well.  I was waking up at 5:30 AM every morning, probably after a long night of drinking, and so I decided that I might as well go for a walk.  As I walked around the park, I’d always see these runners out there.  So I decided to give that a try.  After a few weeks I could run six miles.  After a year, I tried to run a marathon.  I hit a wall at the twenty-mile mark, but I threw up and took a leak, then I found the energy to finish.  I’ve been pushing through walls ever since.  I ran sixteen marathons in seventeen years, until my doctor told me that I had to stop because of my heart.  After that, I started walking ten miles a day.  Now I’m 91 and my kneecap keeps collapsing, and I have trouble with my balance.  But I’m still more confident than I ever was when I was younger.  I was a wimp.


I’ve been working as an actor and I’ve been in a bit of a rut recently. We need money for rent, school, every bill under the sun. And we want to have a kid soon, so we should really be putting money away for that. We sat down over pizza recently to figure out our finances. She helped convince me that I’m not an idiot.I tend to be the more practical one in the relationship. I told him: ‘This isn’t you. This is just right now.’ We’ve just got to start from the basics and figure things out. Eric needs to be acting and making films, and I’m happiest when he’s doing those things. We just need to make a few small adjustments to make the numbers work. He’s extremely talented, but he agrees to do too many things for free. Nobody would ever ask a lawyer to work for free. But actors and artists get asked all the time. And if Eric likes the person, he’ll work for 80 hours with no compensation. It’s fine to do unpaid projects because you’re passionate. But you have to feel really strongly about it. In each case, we’ve got to ask if the passion is worth more than the dollars.




I grew up in a small town in Canada. I was never the type who had a lot of friends. I was more the type that had ‘a friend.’ It would usually be a girl. So I never really felt connected with the larger group of kids. I was intimidated by social gatherings. I think music was my way of connecting with human emotion in a way that I wasn’t getting in everyday life. We had an old upright piano in the living room. I’d practice for five or six hours every day. I spent a lot of time alone. Music was my escape at first. But in the end it gave me a confidence that made it easier to relate to other people.




I feel like when you’re young, you change every day. But I feel like now that I’m fifteen, I’m becoming a person. Everything is slowing down and I’m starting to dry like a mud statue. And it’s scary. Because I’m realizing the way that people are going to see me. And I’m learning the things that people are going to think about me.But that’s not necessarily true. Change may slow down, but it becomes more deliberate. At this age you get to experience different things and try different personas, just like an actress. But it makes me proud how much you’re thinking through these things. You’re very good at managing complex emotions. Only thing I’m worried about is your learner's permit and the dogginess of boys.
I knew a girl in high school that always complained about having anxiety.  I used to make fun of her a little bit.  It looked like nothing to me.  So I assumed it was nothing.  And I dealt with it by trying to convince her that it was nothing.  I called her recently to apologize.  I’ve had really bad anxiety ever since my father died.  And it’s definitely not nothing.  It’s the indescribable fear of nothing.


We walked all around this big museum. A museum is a place where you can see art or animals. This museum has stuff like Jesus and I saw a statue of somebody cutting a head. I’ve been drawing the statues but I’m not good at drawing lips, and the hands have three fingers instead of five because that’s easier. I probably shouldn’t show you this one because… I don’t want to say it. You can see their… their… their…. BUTTS.




He lets me paint his nails and put make-up on his eyes and he plays with me in my Barbie house which is like twenty feet tall."


I’ve been teaching the GED course for 21 years.  I’ve helped over 300 students get their certificates.  I had one student recently—he was 50 years old and only had a 6th grade education.  He sat in the back of the class and didn’t say anything.  He just watched.  But then one day there was a tough algebra problem that nobody could figure out.  He volunteered to come up and tried it on the board, and he got it.  In front of everybody.  The next day when I arrived, he was sitting in the front.  After class I handed him a huge study guide, and told him: ‘If you’ll give 25 percent, I’ll give you 75 percent.’  I told him he could interrupt me at any time to ask me questions.  And he did.  It seemed like he was coming up to me every few hours in the cafeteria, while I was playing cards, while I was watching movies.  After nine months he took the test and passed.  He was so proud.  He said he couldn’t wait to tell his daughter.  A few months later I was sitting here in the visiting room, and this young woman kept looking at me.  So much so that my girlfriend was starting to get upset.  Eventually she walked over to me, and said: ‘Thank you so much for helping my father get his GED.’  It was the best feeling in the world.

(Federal Correctional Complex: Hazelton, West Virginia)
(4/4) When Donald finally got caught, they offered him a plea deal so I wouldn’t have to go to jail.  But he refused it.  He told my cousin: ‘If I can’t have her, nobody will.’  They arrested me at the courthouse on the same day Donald refused his deal.  The public defender told me to sign a plea bargain.  He told me no jail time.  But at the sentencing, I heard the judge mention jail and I panicked.  When the judge asked me if I’d been promised anything in exchange for the deal, I said: ‘Yes!’  The prosecutor was so mad.  She thought I made her look bad.  She pushed for a life sentence at trial.  The jury never heard about the abuse.  They only heard about the drugs.  They didn’t realize that the true victims were me, my children, and my brother.  I’ve been in prison for twenty years now.  But this has a happy ending.  And I swear, when I agreed to this interview, I didn’t even know this yet.  But President Obama just granted me clemency.  And I’m going home.

(Metropolitan Detention Center, Brooklyn)
  One night it got so bad that I got a gun and pointed it at him.  I didn’t know how to use it.  I didn’t even know if the safety was on.  My son walked into the room at the time and tried to stand between us.  Donald jumped over him, grabbed the gun, and pistol-whipped me.  After that I tried to run away again.  While Donald was taking flying lessons, I packed everything into a U-Haul and drove away so fast that the trailer came apart on the highway.  When Donald discovered I was gone, he sent some goons to my brother’s house and beat him up in front of his entire family.  When they finished beating him, they told him that my mother was next.  So I went back.  After that Donald didn’t trust me anymore.  He made me start traveling with him.  He didn’t give me a choice.  He’d say: ‘Pack your bags.  We’ve got business.’  He involved me with everything.  He made me stand there while he dealt the drugs.  He made me call people and relay messages for him.  He had me make deliveries.  I did everything he told me to.

(Metropolitan Detention Center, Brooklyn)
(2/4)  One day I walked into Donald’s office and saw him handing off a package of cocaine.  I turned around and left immediately. He came out later and told me that he was just doing it to get his business off the ground.  He said he needed to raise $25,000 to cover expenses.  I was naive at that point.   I even called my mother and asked her to help arrange a small business loan.  But Donald started dealing more and more.  He kept it from me.  He started running a lot of errands.  He started taking trips twice a month.  The day I went into labor with our first child, he dropped me off at the hospital and went to park the car.  He didn’t come back until the next day.  The abuse got worse and worse.   He’d throw water on me.  He’d burn me with a lighter.  When I was pregnant with our second child, Donald hit me in the head with a telephone.  After I got to prison, we watched a movie one night about Tina Turner, called ‘What’s Love Got To Do With It?’  There’s this one scene where Ike is dragging Tina down the hallway by her hair, and her sons are watching the whole thing and crying.  I couldn’t believe it.  I felt like I was watching a movie about my life.

(Metropolitan Detention Center, Brooklyn)
  I met Donald when I was twenty-six.  He pursued me relentlessly.  He’d call me every day.  He’d invite me to come to the Bahamas with him.  He’d buy me all kinds of things.  He would even loan me his vintage corvette for the weekend.  I was just starting out in life. I wasn’t used to all that attention.  He had his own landscaping company with his own building and everything.  He wooed my whole family.  Even my mother liked him, and she isn’t easily persuaded.  So I fell for him.  The abuse didn’t start until I was pregnant with our first child.  We were lying in bed one night and he asked me to get him a glass of water.  When I told him ‘no,’ he punched me in the face.  He said: ‘When I ask you to do something, I expect you to do it.’  I tried to leave right away.  I ran back to my family in New York.  But he followed me and begged me to forgive him.  He said he didn’t want our child to grow up without a father."

(Metropolitan Detention Center, Brooklyn)
I’m sixty-two now.  I have three more years.  I sold heroin.  A lot of it.  I had forty people working for me.  If you were to ask me thirty-four years ago what it was going to be like in prison, I couldn’t have imagined.  It’s been the same thing every day.  Everyone I care about is gone.  My mother passed.  My father passed.  My brother and sister.  If I look backwards, I’ll lose my mind.  I just try to keep busy and take it one day at a time.  I’ve done every self-help program in the system.  I’m the lead facilitator for the Men of Influence program.  We teach behavioral skills, financial management, and entrepreneurship.  In the five years that I’ve been in charge, we’ve graduated 250 people, and only one has come back to prison.  I tell them: ‘Don’t let me be your future.’  And if I could say one thing to everyone who reads this interview.  I want to apologize for the harm that I caused.  If I could go back in time and correct it, I would.  But that’s what I’ve been trying to do for the past 34 years.  I grew up in the Baltimore projects.  Everyone that I knew had nothing.  I was trying to improve my life with the information that I had at the time.  I grabbed the wrong rope.  I’m sorry if I caused generations behind me to go astray.  It wasn’t my intention to bring pain to the community.  And I really think that when I’m released, I can be an asset to society.

(Federal Correctional Institution: Cumberland, Maryland)


I knew a person who worked for an insurance company. I’d give her some money and then she’d give me all the information I needed to open fake credit lines. I’d create fake drivers licenses and then go into stores and open up lines of credit. You can buy about $10,000 worth of stuff at a time, and then sell it for 70% of face value. I’d also rent cars under their name, change the VIN number, and then sell them with fake titles. You can print a fake title on nice parchment, add a watermark, and nobody looks too close. Then even after I destroyed their credit, I could still use their information. I could print up some fake checks with their name on it and cash them at banks. My checks had magnetic ink and everything. I learned it all on the Internet. I tried to stay emotionally detached. I never learned too much about the people. They were just names to me. Nothing personal. Plus all of them were government employees. So why should I feel guilty? Does the government feel guilty about slavery?(Federal Correctional Institution: Cumberland, Maryland)


I was convicted of distributing a large amount of crack cocaine.  I was offered sixty months to cooperate, but I turned it down.  My family is still mad about that.  They say I chose the streets over them.  But I couldn’t bring someone else down with me, so they gave me five life sentences.   I’ve been here twenty years.  I’ve seen a lot of these younger kids come back two or three times already.   I try to guide them but it’s no use.  They only seem interested in finding a better way to do bad.  The library is always empty.  None of these young guys take advantage of the programs.   I encourage them to get their GED’s while they’re here, but they laugh at me.  They don't respect their elders.  Crack changed everything.  So many of these young men saw their mothers and fathers doing drugs in the street.  So many of their parents went to prison.  These kids were forced to raise themselves.  So they aren’t about to listen to anyone.  I did the same thing to my kids.  My son got murdered.  My daughter had to raise herself because her mom is doing thirteen life sentences.  But she’s the exception.  She's got every excuse to be bitter, but she doesn't even talk about it.  She’s got a 4.0 at the University of Virginia right now.

(Federal Correctional Complex: Allenwood, Pennsylvania)


It wasn’t really a gang. There aren’t Bloods or Crips in Puerto Rico. It was a neighborhood thing. There were no colors. There was no initiation. We just grew up together. I had two cousins and two brother-in-laws who were in the organization. There were ranks: watchers, dealers, runners, leaders, enforcers. But the ranks didn’t really get in the way of the relationships. We all played basketball together. We threw block parties for the whole neighborhood. It was like a family. There was only one entrance and one exit to our neighborhood. The houses were all close together. There were no lawns. On the night it ended, I could hear the doors breaking down all around me. Helicopters were overhead. I kept getting calls saying: ‘They got this person, they got that person, they got your cousin.’ I just sat in the middle of the living room, smoking a cigarette. Suddenly I heard a bunch of footsteps coming up the stairs. I heard the sound of a power saw and sparks started coming off my door. I went to open the door but I got hit with a flashbang, and eight guys rushed in. They got everyone that night. They didn’t even bring us to a jail. They brought us to a basketball stadium.(Federal Correctional Complex: Hazelton, West Virginia)




I was in college when I started. I was going to school and working at a print shop. There was a drug point outside of my apartment building. I played basketball with the guy who ran it. He told me: ‘I’ve got one night open, and I’m going to offer it to you first.’ My shift was on Friday, 6pm to 6am. We sold weed, heroin, and crack. I made $500 that first night. I was nineteen. My girlfriend wasn’t sure about it, but I bought her some high heels with the money, and I promised her I’d keep working at the print shop. After a few weeks, Saturday and Sunday opened up too. Then Wednesday. I started making 2k, then 3k, then 5k per week. I went to register for my next semester of college, but the line was too long, so I never went back. I didn’t have to wake up at 7 AM anymore. I could wake up whenever I wanted. The money made me feel powerful. People would stop talking when I began to talk. I could give an old lady $100 to pay her light bill. I could give kids $50 to go to the movies. The guy who first offered me the job had a house, and kids, and cars, and a motorcycle. He’d been working for twenty years with no problem. I thought: ‘Why can’t that be me?’(Federal Correctional Complex: Hazelton, West Virginia)




I’ve organized a lot of programs in prison. One of the classes I started is called Creative Parenting. It’s the most popular class here. The waiting list is really long. I don’t have any kids myself, but I noticed that most guys are really soft for their kids. So that gave me an idea. Mainly we just make stuff and send it to the kids. We’ll do coloring projects where the father will color half the picture, and the kid will color the second half. We write bedtime stories. Most of the guys write about sports, but we make sure that every story has a moral. Sometimes we’ll take funny photos and send them to the kids. One guy’s daughter was really into My Little Pony. He was a tough guy. He was in a gang and everything, but he put his hair into pigtails and pretended to be a horse. We did another class where we made cards for kids with cancer. I had my family set it up with a hospital. We made about 200 cards. They didn’t want us to write ‘I hope you feel better,’ because that reminds the kids of what they’re going through. So we tried to keep it focused on Christmas. There were 150 guys in my unit, and 60 signed up for that program. A lot of the guys had to wait outside because the room was too small.(Federal Correctional Complex: Hazelton, West Virginia)




My dad couldn’t handle me. My mother was an alcoholic so he raised us on his own. I burned our house to the ground when I was four years old. I didn’t like my brother’s stuffed animal, so I set it on fire. The next year I punched my dad in the face. I threw a desk at my teacher in fifth grade. I ran away when I was twelve. My dad tried everything. He took me to psychologists. They diagnosed me with Intermittent Explosive Disorder, so they put me on medication. But it didn’t help much. Nobody could control me. They’d actually have to hold me down when I went into a rage. Dad could never get a point across because if he raised his voice, I’d explode. He’d try to give me incentives. He’d say things like: ‘If you do good in school, I’ll bring you to a ball game.’ He’d follow the school bus to make sure I didn’t skip, but then I’d just run out the back exit. Neither of my brothers ever got in trouble. It was just me. I’ve gotten multiple assault charges. I fight. That’s what I do. I feel like my head is going to burst and I see stars and I snap. My dad comes to visit about once a month, and we talk things over, just like we’re doing now. And he asks me all the time, ‘What else could I have done?’ I tell him: ‘Nothing. You did everything you could.’(Federal Correctional Complex: Hazelton, West Virginia)




I was a good student. I did football, karate, basketball, all sorts of activities. I never skipped school. I first sold drugs when I was twelve or thirteen. It wasn’t a full time thing. Just whenever I needed money. My mom was raising four of us in a one-bedroom apartment, so we didn’t have money for clothes. I just needed enough to keep people from focusing on me. Just enough to keep moving. But as I got older, it cost more and more to stay up. Girls came into the picture. I wanted to impress them. I started dealing more and more, and all the other activities faded out of my life. I tried to study nursing after high school. I paid my tuition with drug money. But I lost focus after two years and fell back on drug dealing. I thought I could be double-minded. But it’s not possible. You can’t do good and bad at the same time. The bad always wins. There’s no such thing as Robin Hood. Nobody wants to hear that you’re dealing drugs to feed your family. Prosecutor doesn’t want to hear that. Society doesn’t want to hear that. The system doesn’t want to hear that. There’s a verse in the Book of Ezekiel, I forget which one, but it talks about this. It says something like: ‘If you do all good, and one bad, the good will not be mentioned.’(Federal Correctional Institution: Cumberland, Maryland)




I got caught up in a little something. I’ve got twenty days left. Nobody knows I’m here. I’ve got somebody updating my Facebook page for me. All my friends think I’m in Hawaii right now.(Metropolitan Correctional Center, New York)


I was alone with four kids. My mother was sick. I was making $500 a week working at a restaurant in Harlem. This Colombian woman told me she could help. She said, ‘We need honest people like you.’ I really needed the money. They gave me a job as a transporter. I drove cocaine from Manhattan to Massachusetts. They gave me some extra to sell at the restaurant. I only had a few clients. I did it for two years. I never did any drugs myself. Then I was set up in a sting by the same woman who got me started. I knew I’d done wrong but I’d never been in trouble before. I thought I would do a little time in jail. The detectives told me: ‘You’re a leader. You’re this. You’re that.’ The lawyer told me to sign these papers. I didn’t understand what to do. They told me I didn’t have a chance at trial. They told me they were helping me. I was given 25 years.(Metropolitan Detention Center, Brooklyn)


Had to take down Michelle's photo and story due to a request from someone in the background. So I'm reposting her story   remix edition. (Photo Credit: Miquelle West, @miquellewest on Instagram)I’ve got a daughter out there. I’ve been gone for 23 years now. It’s really hurt her. My sister told me that after graduation, when everyone else was taking photos with their family, my daughter just broke down and cried. When she visits, she tells me that she feels too guilty to start a family because I won’t be there to see it. But she’s been very successful despite me. She’s a stylist. She’s doing so well. I can’t do much in here to support her, but I try my best. I’ve ordered all the fashion magazines: Vogue, Marie Claire, Elle, Bazaar. She’s too busy to read them all, so I look through them and try to find something that might help her. I set aside anything that she might be able to use for an Instagram post. She posts pictures of me on there, but only on ‘Throwback Thursday.’ She’s not ashamed of me, but she just doesn’t want anyone to see this khaki uniform. She hates it.


I thought it was a bomb at first.  It pushed the building, so I was thrown against the wall.  Nobody screamed.  It was silent except for the sound of ringing phones.  There was no announcement or anything, everyone just started walking toward the exits.  I remember the stairs were wet.  Fuel had poured down through the elevator shafts so it smelled like a really strong cleaning product.  I still smell it when I’m dreaming.  Everyone was calm and quiet in the stairwell.  A lot of people were out of shape, so we were moving slowly.  Occasionally we’d move out of the way to let a fireman run past.  People didn’t begin to panic until we reached the ground floor because there was broken glass everywhere and bodies on the ground.  That’s the first time we started running.  The police actually tried to keep us inside the lobby because bodies were falling outside, but we pushed past them.  I remember being shocked by all the people who were standing around, looking up.  I couldn’t understand why a person would do that.  I walked thirty blocks, then I caught a ride to midtown.  I tried walking down into a subway station to see if the trains were running.  An attendant was sitting in the booth, watching the television, and she said: ‘They’re gone.’  And that was when I finally felt fear.  Until then, it had only been survival.

(Metropolitan Correctional Center, New York)
I tried to make some money the honest way as a kid.  I tried shoveling snow.  I tried a newspaper route.  I stuck with it for awhile, but one day I was collecting money on my route and these older kids robbed me.  There were three of them.    They were 16 or 17.  I fought hard.  I told them: ‘I worked hard for this money.’  But they held me down and took it anyway.   It was $27.  And that made me feel so powerless.  And I remembered that I knew someone with a knife.  And I thought: ‘I’m going to steal that knife and deal with this firmly.’  I found those boys at an arcade.  Nobody got killed.  But I hurt them.  I wouldn’t say that I felt proud after stabbing them, but I felt like they got what they deserved.  I felt vindicated.  Even today, I have trouble sympathizing with them.  It’s funny how that works.  When someone wrongs us, we want the maximum amount of punishment.  But when we do wrong, we want the maximum amount of understanding and forgiveness.

(Metropolitan Correctional Center, New York)
My father died when I was six.  He drowned on a fishing trip.  My mother had to raise five of us in North Philadelphia.  I remember being twelve years old and going to a market on the corner.  My mother had sent me with a note, asking for some credit so we could buy some food.  The owner made me wait.  There were other people in the store, and they were paying, so this guy is just skipping all over me.  He’s making me beg in front of everyone.  He’s saying things like: ‘Your mom still owes me.  She never pays.’  My mom was my queen, and he’s running her down in front of all these people.  It was degrading.  I hated that he had that power over me.  Like he had water, and I was thirsty.  So I screamed at him and stormed out.  I kept thinking: ‘One day I’m going to buy that store.’  But then I calmed down, and I realized that I just spazzed on the one guy who could help us.  So I walked up to some of the dope boys on the corner, and asked them to let me earn.  They thought I was too young at the time.  They wanted to protect me.  So they just gave me the money.

(Metropolitan Correctional Center, New York)


I was working at a nightclub in Honduras, making $4 a night, and some guy tells me that I can make $6,000 in twelve days just by working on a boat. There weren’t any jobs in Honduras. We didn’t have government benefits like you have here. It’s really tough to say ‘no’ when there are no other options for money. So I agreed. They put me on a small fishing boat. We transported cocaine from Colombia to Honduras. My job was to maintain the vessel and help load the cargo. I’ve never done drugs in my life. On our fourth trip, we were stopped in international waters by the US coastguard. We had 986 kilograms of cocaine. That was ten years ago.(Federal Correctional Complex: Allenwood, Pennsylvania)


(2/2)  One day I stole my neighbor’s benefit check out of the mailbox, and she came looking for it.  I was in my mid-twenties, and by that time the voices were very strong.  They were screaming at me to do bad things.  They were telling me to protect myself.  That I was in danger.  So I went downstairs to the woman’s apartment where she lived with her ten-year-old daughter.   I can’t remember this or I won’t sleep tonight.  I kept vomiting while it happened.  I didn’t sleep for two weeks.  The woman and her daughter kept coming back to life and I would see them everywhere.  One time I opened the shower curtain and the woman was standing there and I screamed.  The detectives questioned me but they let me go.  They didn’t suspect me.  I went to Jamaica and lived for two years and nobody looked for me.  But the images were always in my head.  I couldn’t take it anymore.  I went to the American embassy, and I told them:  ‘I’ve committed a murder.’

(Metropolitan Detention Center, Brooklyn)
  My childhood ended early.  I was sexually abused by two family members until the age of eleven.  It happened every time I went to stay at my grandmother’s house.  I didn’t feel like I could tell my mother or father.  West Indian culture is a little different.   We didn’t really talk like that.  People wondered why I didn't act like a kid.  They were always asking why I never smiled.  I was angry all the time.  I got suspended from school in 9th grade for fighting, because somebody touched my breast in the stairwell.  The voices started later the Christmas after my father was murdered.  I take injections for them today.  But back then I didn’t see them as voices.  I used to call them my friends.  I really thought people were talking to me.  They had different personalities.  They always said bad things, like: ‘It’s not worth being alive.’  Or ‘Go ahead and kill yourself.’

(Metropolitan Detention Center, Brooklyn)


He’s a beautiful person. He always tells me: ‘We’ve got to find a way to win by losing.’ In the eyes of society, we’ve lost already. Everyone in here is a loser. We can either be angry about it, or we can keep trying to grow. He’s always correcting my Spanish and giving me quizzes. He used to be an engineer, so he’s been tutoring me in trigonometry. He’s been a blessing to me. He’s helped me to not be so angry. He’s always so happy and optimistic. And I don’t know how he stays so positive. Because I’m getting out of here in 40 months. He’s doing life.(Federal Correctional Complex: Allenwood, Pennsylvania)


My mom was a single mom and there were nine of us.  All of the kids worked in the fields.  I started when I was twelve.  We picked cucumbers, apples, corn, strawberries, all of it.  None of us went to school.  Nobody cared if you move around a lot, the system loses track of you.  Whenever the harvest was done, we’d go somewhere else.  We always signed a contract.  The farmers would give us a place to live and a little bit of money, and we worked in their fields.  But there was never any money left when we finished.   One day when I was eighteen, a friend of mine asked me to hide some marijuana in our trailer.  He gave me a little money.  I gave it to my mom.  And that’s how it all began.

(Federal Correctional Complex: Hazelton, West Virginia)
This is my fifth time in prison.  Every crime I’ve committed has come from my addiction.  Best case scenario is I get out of here, rebuild my life, and join the one percent of people who have beaten a meth addiction.  Worst case scenario is I become no more than what I am today.  And honestly, if I mess up again, I hope it kills me.  Because I don’t want to keep hurting people.   I’ve cheated my kids out of normal lives.  My seventeen-year-old daughter is in a home for teen moms.  My twenty-one-year-old son is in jail.  My eighteen-year-old daughter is doing OK.  She’s got a job at FedEx and goes to college.  She hates drugs and thinks the world is a good place and that nobody is out to hurt her.  She wants to help me.  She wants me to come live with her when I get out.  I don’t think that’s a good idea.

(Federal Correctional Complex: Hazelton, West Virginia)
I actually escaped once.  I was picked up for possession of heroin and taken to the police station.  They handcuffed my hands and feet, shackled me to the wall, and left me in the interrogation room with a can of soda.  I ripped up the soda can until I had a thin strip of aluminum, and I wedged it into the teeth of the handcuffs so I could override the locking mechanism and pull them apart.  Then I dragged the shackles for two miles to a friend’s house and borrowed a bobby pin to pick the locks on my hands and feet.  I honestly didn’t think the police would care that much.  It was just a bag of heroin.  I thought they’d check my mom’s house and give up.  Instead they sent out dogs and helicopters.  My picture was all over the news.  They caught me after a few hours.  They weren’t very happy.  It wasn’t an easy thing to do.  Extremely stupid, I know.  But not easy.

(Federal Correctional Complex: Allenwood, Pennsylvania)
I was studying landscape architecture at Penn State and dealing drugs on the side.  At the age of twenty, I got arrested with a quarter pound of mushrooms and a pound of marijuana.  I assumed my life was over at that point.  I didn’t think I could bounce back from a felony charge so I pretty much gave up on everything.  I started doing cocaine and heroin while I waited on my sentencing, and I’ve been an addict ever since.  I’ve spent a total of fifteen years in prison for various drug charges.  My last arrest was for producing Fentanyl.  It’s extremely difficult to make—it’s stronger than heroin and a much more complicated molecule than meth.  I only know of one other person on the east coast who figured out how to make it.  There were so many laws in place to keep people from getting the materials.  I had no resources and no connections but I studied organic chemistry and found a way.  When I finally got caught, all they wanted to know was how I did it.  That’s the problem with my addiction.  I’m smart enough to get around anything.  So there’s never been anything to stop me but myself.

(Federal Correctional Complex: Allenwood, Pennsylvania)


For the next several days, I will be sharing stories of inmates from five different federal prisons across the Northeast—including Manhattan and Brooklyn.




My wife passed away last January. We’d been married for 62 years. You caught me at a time when I’ve been thinking a lot about love because I’m reading Shakespeare’s sonnets. The definition of love is elusive, which is why we write about it endlessly. Even Shakespeare couldn’t touch it. All the greatest love stories just seem to be about physical attraction. Romeo and Juliet didn’t know ifthey liked the same books or movies. It was just physical. After 62 years, it becomes something different entirely. My wife used to say: ‘We are one.’ And believe me, she was not the type of person to overstate something. Now that she’s gone, I realize how right she was. So much of our lives were linked. We were very physical and affectionate. But we also shared every ritual of our life. I miss her every time I leave a movie and can’t ask for her opinion. Or every time I go to a restaurant and can’t give her a taste of my chicken. I miss her most at night. We got in bed together at the same time every night.


Both my parents were in prison while I was growing up. I’ve been in prison for 90% of my life, mainly for drugs. When I got out in 2014, there was this old lawyer in the Bronx who took an interest in me. His name was Ramon Jimenez. He’s kind of like a community activist. I don’t know why he cared so much, but he sat down with me and tried to map out my life. When I tried to start selling drugs again, Ramon came out and stood on the corner with me for three days straight. Here’s this 72 year old dude, shadowing me wherever I go, screaming at anyone who tried to walk up to me: "I'm calling the cops!' I was so mad. But after three days I gave it up.


She’s the glue for the entire family.  She plans everything, and everything centers around bringing us together.  We’re just leaving a dinner with our son that she arranged.  During the holidays, she organizes all sorts of games and scavenger hunts.  She even buys everyone the same pair of pajamas for Christmas morning.  On one of our anniversaries, she turned our living room into a French restaurant called ‘The House of Love.’  All because our eight-year-old daughter was studying French in school.
I can diet for two or three days.  I can eat a few salads and pretend like I enjoy them.  But then I always have a massive relapse.  I just left Checkers.  Some guy handed me a coupon on the street and that was all it took.  Next thing you know I’m eating two burgers and a fry.  Total disaster.  Only $4 though.  I’ll have a salad for dinner tomorrow.
It’s like I’m on eggshells all the time.  Nothing but stress.  I get $696 a month from social security.  I could get more if I pretend to be bipolar like some people I know, but they make you take medicine to get your disability benefits.  I'm not going to sit around like a zombie to get extra money.  When I pay my bills, I have $30 left over.  I can feed myself with 59-cent cans of tuna.  I tried one of those food pantries but they aren’t even worth the time.  I didn’t even know that pints of milk still existed.   The bus drivers in the Bronx are cool so they let me ride for free.  So that’s good.  I can get around.  But I can’t afford for anything to go wrong.  Some lady is letting me stay in her place for cheap while she lives with her daughter, so I have a place to live.  But it’s rent controlled so I’m not even supposed to be there.  Every time I go home it’s like four layers of doom.  First I’m terrified that my key won’t work.  Then I’m terrified that there’s a letter in my mailbox.  Then I’m afraid that the elevator won’t work—but that’s just cause I’m a lazy fuck.  And then when I finally get to my apartment, I’m afraid there’s a letter under the door.  Nothing but stress.  I never feel safe.  Every time there’s a knock on the door, I think it’s the end.


I’m a colon therapist. I flush out your blockages so you can be your authentic self. I'm the Queen of Poo. A lot of people are intimidated by the process so I try to deflect the awkwardness with humor. I’m a one girl comedy show. But I don’t have a planned set or anything. It’s all organic. Stuff just comes out.




I’m writing a book about Basil The Bat Lord, who is a human that enters into a tryout for becoming a king. And he’s either going to be the king of the Bat Kingdom, the Spider Kingdom, or the Snake Kingdom. And there’s one more kingdom too, I forget. Oh yeah, The Moth Kingdom. But then Wilda the Witch gets the Spider Kingdom to start attacking all the other kingdoms. And Basil gets the Moth Kingdom to help defeat Wilda. But I’m not going to tell you how Wilda is defeated because then people won’t be as excited about my book.




Just catching some rays."




We’re associate financial representatives—assistants, basically. We planned this vacation in the break room for weeks. We mapped out everything. It’s been a very efficient trip. We went to thirty-five destinations. Everything was planned hour by hour. We mapped out our routes, calculated travel times, chose what snacks we would eat, and even included the time we would need to get ready in the morning. Today got a little messed up because we slept in, but we’re back on track. We have another thirty minutes at the ice rink, then we’re getting a shiitake mushroom burger at Umami, then we’ll get some gelato, and we’re ending the night with a walk down 5th Avenue.




I’ve got a bit of a jewelry addiction. I probably have over sixty bracelets. I go into a sort of trance when I see a piece of jewelry, and I feel like it’s going to give me a power or beauty that’s not obtainable without it. I saw this gun and thought it would make me feel more ‘hip hop.’ I started having second thoughts once I got in line at the cash register, but there was already so much momentum at that point. Now I’m not so sure about it. I’ve got to stop spending money.




I grew up in a blue collar family. My dad was a printer—a union guy. So he didn’t have the financial resources to pay for my college or law school. I had to make my own way. I flipped burgers during the week for frat guys at the Student Union. I covered my tuition by spending my summers in the Marine reserves. I’m trying to make sure my kids don’t have to do all that stuff. I want them to be able to backpack through Europe, or volunteer in Central America. Meaningful stuff. If my son wants to be a poet or an Indian chief, that’s fine with me. I work 60 or 70 hours a week to make sure they can do whatever they want. I miss a lot of stuff, though. I have to hear about the soccer games second hand. That’s why the snowstorm this weekend was so great. No school commitments. No work commitments. We didn't do much at all. Just sat around and read the newspaper or watched TV. There was just a lot of—talk.




I do pro wrestling on the side. It’s my weekend high. My wrestling name is Dirtbag Dan. I’m not very big so I’m one of the dirtiest fighters. My job is to make people hate me. I do all kinds of cheap moves: eye gouging, face-raking, stuff like that. I even gave a guy a wet willy once. I’ll go into the crowd and rip people’s signs up. I’ll tell a college kid that he should have been swallowed. Or if it’s family night, I’ll tell a little girl there’s no Santa Clause. Somebody’s got to be the bad guy. Because if there aren’t bad guys, there are no good guys. There can be no Chris Steeler without Dirtbag Dan.




I’ve tried to relax my goals as I’ve gotten older so they don’t get in the way of enjoying the people I’m with right now.




The other team’s snow fort is higher than ours, so we’re trying to build some walls. It’s going to be a tough battle, because all they have to do is stand up and they can throw snowballs right into our fort. But I think we have the most friendship so that will be an advantage. We’ve known each other since we were three and we’re on the same soccer team. So if one person gets hit in the face with a snowball, everyone else will help to recover them.




We’re kinda trying to make an igloo but we’re not sure how to make the roof.


Today in microfashion
When we go to the parent-teacher conferences, they always tell us that he has difficulty paying attention and can't sit still in his seat, but that he has a big heart and always sticks up for kids who are getting picked on.  And that makes me proud.  Because we've always told him that it doesn't matter how smart you are, as long as you're a good person."
Whenever I'm doing my doll's hair, he comes in and ruins everything."
I want to get in on the fun. I'm just not understanded."
We found a car!"
I grew up in the church.  I accepted Christ when I was seven years old.  At the age of sixteen, I decided to dedicate my life to serving Jesus while attending a mission camp worship service.  My biggest accomplishment is all the times I’ve helped young kids find a relationship with Christ.  And my biggest goal in life is to tell everyone about Jesus.  I’m here in New York trying to plant churches.  It’s a mission field unlike any other.  There are people here from all over the world, so the message you spread here can travel anywhere.  I know all my answers are super churchy, but feel free to share it.  I won’t be reading the comment section.
I want to raise good people.  I don’t want them to grow into people who will do anything they can to get ahead.  So every chance I get, I’m trying to teach them to put themselves in other peoples’ shoes. I always ask my oldest daughter to describe how she thinks another person feels.  Then we try to imagine ways to make them feel better.  I want them to learn that, yes, it feels good to get what you want.  But it can feel just as good to help someone else get what they want.


At my high school, the first kid to get a pair of new Jordan's was the king, and the kid who couldn’t afford them was bait for the sharks. My mom and I didn’t have much money so I got teased a lot. Sometimes it got so bad that I’d have panic attacks. One day all the kids were being especially nice to me in history class. Everyone was acting like my friend, but as soon as the bell rang, they all threw soap at me at the same time. I lived in a homeless shelter at the time. I liked being at the shelter much more than being at school. Everything at school was a competition. But everyone at the shelter helped each other out. People would share clothes, cook for each other, and babysit for each other. We were all at rock bottom, so nobody thought they were better than each other.


We first saw each other in a stage combat class, but were too afraid to speak to each other. But then we happened to ride in the same carpool to the Renaissance Fair. She was a sheperdess. I was Will Scarlett—who is Robin Hood’s number two, when Little John is not around.


I play the drums on the subway for about three hours per day. It’s like the matrix down here. A lot of bad energy. Everyone is rushing and tense and people don’t like to look at each other. So I’m trying to spread some positivity and keep people out of the zombie zone. Yesterday I was singing some Bob Marley and a man screamed at me to stop playing. I think he was bothered by my light. He got too close to the sun.




I’m doing post doctorate research in health economics. My research looks at two variables: dollars spent and numbers of years lived. The goal is to determine how best to utilize Medicaid dollars to maximize the lifespan of recipients. It’s important to study healthcare because it’s the most precious resource we have. Monday was Martin Luther King Day, and he said that there was no greater injustice in America than our distribution of healthcare. Researchers can determine your life expectancy based on the closest subway stop to your house. That’s not due to genetics. That’s not because the breadbasket of America is running out. That’s because of how we choose to divide our resources. And I think it defines our character as a society.




I’m just trying to survive. I don’t have any money in the bank. I pick up whatever minimum wage jobs that I can, mainly fast food. At the job program, they tell us that we should never tell an interviewer: ‘I need a job.’ Instead we’re supposed to say: ‘I like customer service.’ That’s true for me though. I do feel good when I'm providing customer service. It helps me not worry about all the other stuff in my life.




I’m trying to find the thing that motivates me to get me out of bed every morning. Basketball makes me come to the park every day and work hard. Now I just need to find the thing that makes me work hard on everything else. I want to get my grades up to a 4.0. Now that I’m talking to you, I think my main motivation is going to be my mom. Her dream is to have a house where we all live on different floors. I'm not sure about that idea. But I do want to get her a house.




We've been together for ten months now so we're trying to keep the passion alive."




I started studying Christianity more ever since my husband joined the seminary. I’m not offended by it. When you step back from the literal interpretation, you realize that so much of the Bible is aimed at survival. Look at all the crazy dietary restrictions. Homosexuality was forbidden because it didn’t lead to reproduction. For the same reason, if you had sex during your wife’s period, you had to sacrifice a hamster in the temple. The people who wrote the Bible were speaking with the only language that they knew at the time—survival. When I step back from that, I see a book that attempts to use symbols and stories to understand the source of life. And that source is depicted as completely loving. And I think that’s beautiful.




I felt attracted to other boys when I was four years old, but by the time I hit puberty, it felt like a tractor beam was pulling me toward another person. I didn’t know any other gay people. There was no Internet back then. I had no information about life beyond my neighborhood, church, family, and friends. So I thought I was sick. I considered suicide when I was thirteen. I had the pills measured out and everything. But I picked up a psychology textbook from the library, and it said that all teenage boys go through a phase of sexual exploration. So I thought: ‘It’s just a phase. I can handle a phase.’ I thought as soon as I had a heterosexual encounter, it would all go away. It was a lie, of course. But it got me through my teenage years. And by the time I realized it wasn’t a phase, I’d developed so many other parts of my identity. I’d become good at swimming, running, and playing the cello. I was making good grades. I was even smoking pot. So by the time I finally accepted being gay, my identity was based upon a lot more than my sexuality.


We started out just hooking up but then it got serious and that was weird so we stopped dating for awhile, but then we realized it’s OK so we started dating again and now it’s great.  I hope that doesn’t sound bad.  That sounded bad.  I mean, it was the correct information but I presented it in the wrong way.  This is weird.  I look like a dick.  Ask him a question now.
You don't have to show your skin to get attention."
I’m still a junior resident so I only do basic surgeries.  But once I left such a small scar after removing a man’s gallbladder that he sent me a box of chocolates.
I think I felt entitled to success because I’m smart and I’m good at stuff and I work hard.  Maybe ‘entitled’ isn’t the right word, but I just thought things would happen for me.  I went to a private school in DC—the same place that Obama’s kids go.  Then I studied film at Columbia.  But not much has happened for me since.  I guess the main thing that I lack is single-mindedness.  I’m too scattered and complacent.  I have a hard time finishing things.  I paid to go on a screenwriting retreat recently.  It was a bunch of New Yorkers at an old monastery in the middle of Italy.  It was a magical, quiet place, and we didn’t talk until noon, and I managed to finish about 60 pages of a screenplay.  I left feeling very motivated.  But when I got back to New York, I lost focus again.  Recently I had my ten-year reunion at Columbia, and that was pretty traumatic.  Some of the kids from my film program had become famous.  Everyone seemed to have a good job.  I used to pride myself on not being focused on money.  Now I’m thinking that would have been preferable to not having focus at all.


I’m a Customer Engagement Program Operations Director with a pharmaceutical company. I started working there twenty years ago. At the time, it was just a temporary position. I was writing standard operation procedures to ensure FDA compliance. It was boring and technical, but I was trying to become a theater director and needed the extra income. I remember looking at my coworkers, and thinking: ‘I’m not one of them. I’m just here to make money and leave.’ But I moved to a full time position after my daughter was born. I didn’t want her to be at the mercy of me wanting to become an artist. Soon I no longer saw myself as different than my coworkers. The sense of ‘other’ disappeared. I realized that nobody saw themselves primarily as an employee at a pharmaceutical company. A few years ago, the company gave us a survey to test our morale. One of the questions was: ‘Do you have a best friend at work?’ Everyone laughed at that question. But I do have a best friend at work. His office is down the hall and we’ve seen each other every day for ten years. And that does make a big difference in my life.


My wife and I were eating at a rib joint in Key Largo, and we actually took out a piece of paper and made a pros and cons list.  The ‘con’ list was pretty normal: time, money, things like that.  I remember at the top of the ‘pro’ list was: ‘Full Human Experience.’  After our daughter was born, that became an inside joke with us.  Every time she was screaming at bath time, my wife and I would look at each other and say: ‘Full Human Experience.’  The first three months were the hardest.  Honestly, we wondered if we’d made a mistake.  It was like a bomb dropped and eviscerated everything in our lives.  But then our daughter started growing up, and learning to do things on her own, and we kept taking small steps back and getting more of our own time back.  There’s an unexpected sadness to getting your life back.  It’s like your getting laid off slowly from an equally grueling but joyful job.  She’s ten now.  And I’ll notice that she’ll be reading alone for an hour without getting bored and jumping on me.  We used to make tents on the bed, now it’s more homework and YouTube.  Sometimes she’ll go in her room for a long time and close the door.  Her life is becoming hers and I’m fascinated by where it’s going to go.  But it’s bittersweet that she needs me less and less.
What's your favorite thing about your mom?"
She nags me a lot.  And I know that doesn't sound like a good thing, but that means she loves me."


The President took a few moments to greet Dr. Hamo last night after the speech. Such a cool end to an awesome day. Hopefully this will be the conclusion of Dr. Hamo's story as a refugee, and his narrative will now be defined by his contributions as a scientist and American citizen. He truly is a remarkable man and I was honored to share the day with him.




Dr. Hamo just arrived at the White House for a reception before attending the State of the Union tonight. It’s been a bit surreal reconnecting under these circumstances, since the last time I saw him was during our initial interview in Istanbul. It’s been great catching up. While he’s honored to be representing refugees tonight, he wishes foremost to be seen as a scientist, and hopes that soon he will be known more for his work than his refugee status. And the best news of all Dr. Hamo recently underwent surgery to have a large tumor removed from his stomach. It was benign.




I'm not really a "lyrics guy.'"




(3/3) We stopped playing for ten years after our father’s death. We lost all direction. All of us hit the streets and started selling drugs. Our lives fell apart for a long time. Recently we all got home from prison and we had a meeting. We said: ‘This is not us,’ and we decided to start playing again. We bought some old instruments and tried to practice but it was hard at first. We’d forgotten so much, and it was the first time we’d ever played without Dad counting out the beats. But it started to come back to us, like riding a bike. Now we use the music to support each other. If one of us needs something, all of us come out and play. If one of us is behind on rent, we come out and play. If one of us needs to buy Christmas presents for his kids, we come out and play.




(2/3) Our mother left when we were young. One morning we woke up and there was no breakfast in the kitchen and our clothes weren’t laid out. Dad got very bitter. We started seeing rolled up dollar bills on the table. I think he maybe slept six nights that entire first month. He went from sniffing cocaine, to smoking cocaine, to doing heroin. The drugs actually made him tougher on us. We had less freedom than ever. But by the time we were teenagers, we were beginning to get noticed in the music world. We were getting gigs. We were called The Stokes Family Singers. We even met Michael Jordan when we did a concert at his restaurant. But Dad had a stroke at work one day and died suddenly. And everything came apart.


(1/3)  Our father was the music teacher at our school.  He was very religious and he ruled our house with an iron hand.  We didn’t play in the streets like other kids.  We didn’t go to prom.  Everything was music, music, music.  We learned a lot but we hated him.  He was like Joe Jackson.  All we did was practice.  He’d sit in the other room, and if he heard the music stop, he’d come in and hit somebody.  If he heard the wrong note, he’d come in and hit somebody.  He’d hit you in front of your girlfriend.  And if you brought a friend over, he’d have no problem hitting them too.
Everyone has a hard on for the union.  They think we’re lazy or this or that, or maybe that there’s mafia influence, but honestly I just think they don’t like the little man having a voice.  More and more construction sites are non-union these days.  Nobody wants to pay $30 an hour plus benefits if an immigrant will do the same job for $14 an hour.  And if everything goes non-union, I might as well go work at McDonald’s because I’ll be making the same amount of money.  If the union collapses, I’m going to lose my pension.  The way pensions work each generation pays for the previous generation.  So without a new generation of union workers, there’s not going to be any money left for me.  And I’ll have to work until I die.
We started with Daddy, Munchie, and Stimpy.  But one night I woke up and heard bloop, bloop, bloop and Munchie and Stimpy had died at the same time.  So Daddy has been through a lot.  He lost his whole family.  But Daddy is strong.  He’s been holding on since October and he’s lived through two long car rides.  He also survived four days without eating because I bought him food that was too big for his mouth.   So Daddy’s a survivor.  But I’m going to get him a friend.  I want him to love again.
I was the captain of my soccer team in college.  I was the goalie.  I’d have loved to play professionally but the timing wasn’t right.  Major League Soccer didn’t start until I was 28.  I did everything I could to keep playing though.  I joined a Caribbean league in the Bronx.  A Colombian league in Queens.  I formed my own amateur team and we won ten summer championships in a row.  I’m forty-eight now.  I’m the oldest guy on the team so it takes a lot of extra work to stay in shape.  I’ve had two knee surgeries.  My reflexes are still there but the body is just slower to react.  Most of the time I can compensate with my experience.  I’ve seen everything one million times.  I’ll know that ninety percent of the time in a given situation, the player will make a cross, and I can put myself in the best possible position.  But the wisdom doesn’t compensate for the physical like it used to.  Last year we lost a semifinal game because I was two inches short of a save.  I can see the horizon rising.


I’m trying to focus on my first year in college while my parents get divorced. They told me when I came home for Thanksgiving break. They’ve been together since they were my age. Dad wanted to be a successful artist. He was always the dreamer. He was the one that played games with me, while Mom was the one that helped me with my homework. I just don’t think that Mom felt she could grow with him anymore. She’d recently gone back to school and gotten a new job. Dad is still hoping that his art will get noticed. She thinks he needs to be realistic. He thinks she lost hope too early. Ever since they decided to separate, I noticed that a light seemed to dim in my dad. But a light seemed to grow in my mom.




(6/6) I was institutionalized after the incident. They were giving me Celexa, Wellbutrin, Ambien to help me sleep, Minipress for nightmares, Sertraline, Klonopin. But none of the medication was really working. Finally they gave me convulsive shock therapy and that has helped some. I do feel better. I’m going to The Digital Film Academy now. I thought I’d try to get back into cinema. Recently I made my first film. It’s about a sergeant who failed at his job and caused another soldier to get injured. When he asks for forgiveness, the soldier asks him to prove his remorse by shooting himself in the leg. He agrees. But then it turns out that the gun isn’t loaded.Jamie's film:




(5/6) I didn’t really have time to reflect immediately after the ambush. I just ate dinner and tried to go to sleep because we had another patrol the next day. But I’ve had nightmares ever since. I lie in bed and replay the situation over and over. I wasn’t the leader that I should have been. I failed under pressure and somebody got hurt. I have no confidence left. I can’t take a leadership position of any kind. I tried to stay in the army after I came home from Afghanistan. But one night we were doing a training exercise. Our objective was a forward passage of lines— meaning that two platoons were supposed to pass through each other in the dark. But everything was going wrong. Our platoon leader got lost and I had to take over. Soldiers were all over the place and the mission was failing. I was messing up. It was happening to me all over again and the pressure was too much. So I just ran into a bush and took out my knife and started slashing my wrists as hard and as fast as I could.




(4/6) My last tour was in Afghanistan. That was the bad one. One day we were on a foot patrol, and we were using a metal detector to sweep the road for IEDs. I was a staff sergeant but I’d temporarily taken over as platoon sergeant, so this was really the first time I’d been in a position of leadership. We came across a copper wire stretched over the road and traced it back to some explosives. While we waited for the disposal team, we came under fire. It was an ambush. I thought I’d remember my training but instead I just froze. I messed it up. I was supposed to return fire, flank, and keep good radio communication. But all I felt was horror and I froze. I just got pinned down and bullets were kicking up dust around me and I was just waiting to take one in the head and die. All that training and drilling meant nothing. One of my soldiers got hit by an RPG and was severely injured. I was supposed to be the one in charge, but I froze and did nothing. When the firing subsided, we grabbed our injured man and started driving back down the road. I’ll never forget seeing the villagers laughing at us while we drove away.




(3/6) I got blown up once. We hit an IED while driving to pick up another truck that had broken down. The moment it happened, I just remember feeling really angry. The truck rose into the air and my head hit the ceiling and I remember thinking that this was the end and they’d got me. There was a big rush of adrenaline. When everything came to a stop and we realized that we were still alive, it felt awesome. All of us gathered around the truck and began taking pictures. Everyone was smiling and laughing. I didn’t realize until later how much it affected me. I don’t like to drive anymore. If I ever hit a pothole or a speed bump, I panic.




(2/6) My first tour was Iraq. I think during training I imaged that war would be like the movies. I had zero experience so I was picturing something like Platoon or Full Metal Jacket. But 99% of the time it’s boring and you don’t do anything productive. I was a cavalry scout, so we’d go out in front of the infantry and get an eye on the battlefield. Mainly it involved just sitting at an observation post. The first time I experienced combat, I was actually in a garage helping fix a large truck. We came under indirect fire. I could hear the guns around us and for the first time I realized that the war is real and people are trying to kill us. Honestly, it was pretty cool. It was a huge adrenaline rush. It was the highest I’ve ever felt in my life. It made me feel like my job had been validated.


(1/6) I joined the army because I wanted to do something that mattered.  I’d only ever worked at jobs like McDonald’s and Party City.  I’d just gotten a degree in cinema from Stony Brook, but I wasn’t sure what to do with that.  So I enlisted.  The training mostly emphasized patriotism and discipline.  Basically your job is to kill people, so I think the goal is just train and drill until everything is second nature and doesn’t require any thinking.  Not like you have much opportunity to think about it anyway.  You get dropped off in a faraway country and there’s no way back.


I work for a plumbing company. You probably wouldn't guess by looking at me, but I talk about toilets all day long. I mainly work in sales. But if the toilets are broken, I'll handle that too. You should see the reaction I get from a group of guys when I tell them that I'm here to fix the toilets."


I’ve always liked to do nice things for strangers.  I worked in the mail room at my college dorm, and whenever I emailed a package notification, I’d always add a little something extra.  Like an awesome shark pic.  Or a link to Japanese jazz.  Lately I’ve been doing this thing where I buy really weird antique post cards, write poems on them, and mail them to random people I find in the white pages.  The first time I sent one, I added a full-page disclaimer because I was worried some old person would think it was from ISIS and call the cops.  I basically wrote: ‘Don’t worry.  It’s art.  Everything’s cool.  You won’t be hearing from me again.’


I’ve had some bad luck with living arrangements. I’m on my seventh apartment in three years. My first place in New York was a room in a warehouse with a semi-translucent piece of plastic as a wall. I found it on Craigslist. I shouldn’t have moved in but the guy told me he had three other people waiting so I panicked. My neighbor was an eighty-year-old photographer who sat around in his underwear all day and either watched violent porn or really sexualized war movies I'm not sure. I got out of there after a few months, and found some new roommates who accepted me on the basis of a tarot card reading. That place wasn’t too bad, actually. But the lease ended and I moved into a place with no heat or hot water. Then the landlord was caught siphoning power off a nearby streetlamp. I did get to go to housing court that time, which was kinda cool I guess. My next apartment had smoke alarms that randomly went off at four in the morning. Then I lived with my girlfriend for awhile but we broke up, so I started sleeping on couches. But I’m in a really good place now. I almost don’t want to say this, because it sounds like I’m bragging, but there’s a washer and dryer in the apartment.




God is a strange man. Sometimes I feel like he’s an alien watching me from the sun. When I’m alone, he talks to me. He made me psycho about the moon. I was sitting at the wounds of the Twin Towers and he had me screaming Lady Gaga at the moon in weird strange tones. He doesn’t care. He’s toying with me. He wakes me up every day. He turned me into a St. Louis Cardinals baseball fan. One time he had me at Central Park Zoo acting like a seal. Yesterday he made me spend my last dollar on cheese doodles when I really wanted a butter roll. He almost made me a suicide case. He made me jump on the railroad tracks outside the mental health facility.


(4/4) I applied for a maintenance job here at the Harlem Commonwealth Council. When I showed up for my interview, they sent me straight to the president’s office. His name was Dr. Tait. He’s a very business-oriented person but he’s also versatile. The whole time he had me feeling like I was talking to a real ‘OG.’ I told him everything. I just gave it to him raw. And at the end, he said to me: ‘I like your fucking style.’ I couldn’t believe it. The president said ‘fucking.’ He told me: ‘I know people make mistakes. But right now, the only thing that matters is who you want to become and how we can help you get there.’ Then he walked me out of his office and told the interviewer: ‘I like this guy.’ And that was it.
(2/4)  We didn’t really have any struggles.  We had all the newest things: color television, Atari, those big ass cellphones.  My dad had a limousine service that drove us to school.  And we always went to private Catholic schools.  I’d come back wearing my uniform and all my friends would make fun of me.  I even had a horse on Long Island named Apples.  Each of my siblings had a horse.  Mine liked apples so I named him fucking Apples.  That was our life.  But then one day my parents decided to go legit.  I was seventeen or eighteen at the time.  They sat us down one Saturday afternoon at the big glass table in the living room.  You know how Caucasian people do Sunday dinner?  No disrespect, but that was Saturday afternoon for us.  They sat us down and told us they were stopping everything.  And they did.  No more drinking, no more drugging.  They sold all the businesses.  Both of them worked regular jobs for the next 25 years.  My dad became a train driver and my mom became a drug counselor.  They told us they wanted to set an example for us.  They told us they didn’t want us getting involved in drugs.  But that was all we’d ever known.
  My parents were big in the hustling game.  It wasn’t like it is now.  Now it’s a bunch of kids on the corner trying to get sneakers.  In the early eighties it was a group of older dudes— just some local cats who got together and decided: ‘This is how we’re going to eat.’  Nobody was coming to our house to buy a dime bag.  Everyone who came over was buying weight.  Those were the people who we’d see all the time as kids.  They were like our family.  They’d give us a hundred bucks to go to the store and tell us to keep the change.  It was all very friendly and civil.  There were even three police officers that would always come over and smoke two white guys and a Spanish guy.  They’d sit down in our living room at a big glass table, and my dad would come out from the back and hit them up with envelopes.  Pops looked out for the whole block.  He’d throw block parties.  He’d organize bus trips for all the neighborhood kids.  He’d take everyone to Great Adventures and pay for the whole thing.  And at Christmastime, our doors would stay open. There would be a huge pile of presents and kids from the block would come inside and take whatever they wanted.  It used to make me jealous because it seemed like they got more than we did.
I identify as being queer.  I also identify as being a social worker, a metal head, a goth, sort of a pagan, and maybe a witch.  But I think that I most strongly identify as being a nerd.  Nerds have the least amount of rules.  For the most part, they don’t care about any of that other stuff.  They’re just excited about the things that they’re excited about and they’re happy to share it with you.
As I’ve said so many times before, the community that has grown around this page is a special group of people.  In addition to the people who follow this page, so many of you choose to routinely engage and participate in the community.  You’ve created such a unique and supportive culture in the comment section. And you’ve donated nearly $5 million to our fundraisers in 2015. I think the HONY community is largely composed of people who try to choose compassion over cynicism, and that’s why we’ve been able to accomplish so much this year.  In short—this is a group of people who ‘shows up.’  So thanks so much for showing up last year. Here are some of the things we were able to accomplish:

In January we raised $1.4 million to provide summer programs, college trips, and scholarships to students at Mott Hall Bridges Academy. The money is being administered with the assistance of The Fund for Public Schools. Earlier this year, the students took their first class trip to Harvard. This summer, they participated in a new summer enrichment program featuring such courses as horticulture, financial literacy, and social justice. Vidal, who inspired the effort, is beginning a new chapter as a high school freshman. And Ms. Lopez (The Lopez Effect) has continued to be recognized for her dedication to students, recently giving a TED Talk and becoming a finalist for The Global Teacher Prize.

In August we raised $2.3 million to help Syeda Ghulam Fatima in her quest to end bonded labor in Pakistan. Fatima has been extremely careful and deliberate in her acceptance of the funds, consulting with many other stakeholders and advocacy groups about how best to maximize the impact. She recently received the final installment, and plans to break ground on a new Freedom Center in 2016 to shelter and rehabilitate freed workers. Since our fundraiser, 105 slaves have been freed with the assistance of Fatima’s Bonded Labour Liberation Front, including one of the slaves featured on HONY. Earlier this year, the Clinton Global Initiative chose Fatima for its Global Citizen Award.

Most recently we raised $750,000 to assist thirteen Syrian refugee families selected for American resettlement. We are partnering with the nonprofit Together Rising (), who will be helping us receive the funds and get 100% of the donations to the families in a smart way that doesn’t conflict with other aid they may be receiving.

Finally, and closest to my heart, we are supporting Aya through her appeal process for American resettlement. Our petition ended at almost exactly one million signatures. (I’m choosing to view this as a favorable omen.) Now comes the less glamorous but critical process of filing the appeal itself. Aya’s lawyers at the International Refugee Assistance Project have been working over the holiday to get the appeal finished as soon as possible, and plan to be done next week. I’ll share all major developments on the blog, but as we move forward, I will be providing more detailed updates on the petition page here:

Thanks to everyone for a wonderful year.
Excited for what’s to come.
Life during the week sucks.  But when we're together, we're good."
(3/3) I had one student who came to my school as an ‘emergency transfer.’  He was fourteen when he came into my class.  He’d kick, bite, scream.  He’d even pee his pants just to take them off and throw them at you.  I taught him for several years.  Recently he graduated, and to celebrate I took him to see The Minions.  He stood in line to get his popcorn.  He sat still through the entire movie.  He was able to ‘be there.’  And that’s what gives me the most satisfaction.  Getting my students to the point where they can be in this world.
(2/3)  Even in special education, our curriculum is based on Common Core standards.   I’ll have to teach about seasons to a child who doesn’t know his own name.  I’m expected to teach To Kill A Mockingbird to a classroom full of nonverbal students, some of whom may be wearing diapers and haven’t learned their ABCs.  I think it’s insulting to tell students what they’re going to learn, regardless of their abilities and needs.  But I try to work some magic and design a lesson plan where everyone in the class can take something away from the story.  For the least advanced students, we just use To Kill A Mockingbird to practice the alphabet.  Then I’m also expected to teach Algebra.  I try my best using lots of velcro and lamination, but I can’t say that many of my students have ever learned how to solve for x.  We spend so much energy on learning how to sit still.  I think special populations should be focused more on vocational training like filling out forms and budgeting money—things that will give them confidence and prepare them for independence.  But I keep my mouth shut and do my best to work within the system.  When I first began teaching, my mentor told me: ‘If there’s anything about the system that you want to fight, just make sure it’s the hill you want to die on.’
(1/3)  I got my first classroom when I was twenty-two.  I was so young at the time.  I think I first went into special education imagining that I’d be hanging out with kids all day.  I’ve been teaching for ten years now.  Special education is a lot more exhausting than I imagined.  It’s like a performance.  You need to be ‘on’ the entire day.  You need to be strict.  You need to always say the right thing and respond in just the right way.  I do enjoy it, but in a different way than I imagined.  Many of my students come from broken places.  Some are homeless or live in foster homes.  So the gains come slowly and can be difficult to track.  But I get joy from seeing my students want to learn.  It’s very fulfilling for me if I can inspire my students to want to read a little better, or get a job, or be kinder to their classmate.  It can be very tough sometimes to feel like you’re making a difference.  I remember during one of my first years, I was teaching a group of nonverbal students how to take turns, and everything went to hell and the students started screaming and beating their heads against the table.  Then my best-behaved student turned and bit me.  I thought: ‘I failed.  I made things worse.’  But anytime I feel myself burning out, or losing patience, or not giving it my all, I pull back and do some meditation.  Because if I’m not fully present and trying my hardest to make a difference, I should just quit.
It’s our first date.  We met on Fire Island.  I wasn’t even planning on going out that night.  I’d already drank half a bottle of Johnny Black so I was just going to stay in and read my Chelsea Handler book, but my friends promised to bake me cookies if I went to the club with them.  So I went to buy three bags of cookie dough, and when I finally got to the club all my friends were making out with somebody, so I was like ‘this sucks,’ and I just started dancing by myself and eating the cookie dough.  Then I saw him by the DJ booth and we made eye contact so I went over and started sharing my cookie dough.  We never actually spoke.  Then a few months later I ran into him on the subway.
We met at a Burning Man boat party.  I was tripping acid, and he came over and asked if I was OK.  I thought he was a cop, so I said: ‘Yeah, I’m fine.  Get away from me.’
Merry Christmas!  Yesterday we raised nearly $500,000 in financial assistance for the refugee families we met during the month of December.  As of now, this is enough to provide each family with about $40,000.  That is a large amount for anyone, but when you are starting from zero, it is all the money in the world.  These families lost everything in the war.  Most have multiple children and significant medical needs, so our assistance will significantly ease the stress of starting over.  Thanks so much to everyone who gave yesterday.  The fundraiser will run for one more day, so anyone else who would like to donate may do so here:




Most of the refugee families that we profiled this month have made their way to America. And as the initial excitement fades, they are faced with the stark reality of starting from zero in a new land. Being an immigrant is very difficult. Being a refugee is even worse. Most of them lost everything in the war. And because they were kind enough to share their stories with us, I thought that we could help carry a bit of their load this Christmas.Money we raise over the next 48 hours will be divided evenly among the families that we profiled, including Aya’s. Let’s use this Christmas to give back to the refugees who so openly shared their painful stories with us. Even if we could provide a few thousand dollars to each family—that money will stretch a long way. This Christmas, consider helping us give the gift of a fresh start:
He pulled me aside, and said:

I’m taking her on a boat ride tonight and I’m going to read her a poem I wrote, and then give her a promise ring. When I met her, there were things going on in my life that would have made any other woman walk away.  But I told her everything, and nothing changed her mind about me.  I don’t have any money.  I don’t have a great job.  But she still sees so much in me.  I’d marry her tomorrow if I could, but I’m only nineteen and we’re both working students, so I can’t quite do that yet.  But I wanted to give her a promise ring to let her know that I planned on being with her forever.  Eventually I’ll get her an engagement ring too.  But I think the promise ring is even more important.  Because an engagement ring is just my promise to get married.  But the promise ring is my promise that we’ll be together forever.
This would happen to me today.  That’s fucked up.  I broke up with my boyfriend on Friday.  I filed my Obamacare last night at midnight.   I got four hours of sleep.  I left this morning without taking a shower.  I didn’t put on a dress.  I just put this pink thing on my head so I wouldn’t look so tired.  And now I’ve just finished working and I’m heading home to eat Chinese food.  And you want to take my picture.  Can I at least put on some lipstick?


I stayed in an abusive relationship for too long because I didn’t think I deserved any better. I finally ended it, but afterward I started second guessing myself. I began to feel lonely and I thought: ‘As bad as it was, at least you weren’t alone.’ A big challenge has been learning to be OK with being by myself. One day I may meet someone else, but in the meantime it’s just me, so I’ve got to do what’s best for me. I decided that if there’s something I want to do, and I can’t find anyone to come with me, I’m going to do it anyway. Tonight I’m going to see a bagpipe concert at Madison Presbyterian Church. I’ve even been on several vacations by myself. I went to Miami recently. It’s fun during the day because you can lie on the beach and you’re surrounded by people. But at night it’s a little tougher because it’s quieter and darker. And without all the noise around you, you sort of realize it’s just you.


Today in microfashion
We’re process nerds.  People don't realize how important it is for refugee applicants to get every single detail right.  One misstep can lead to dire results.  We think Aya is in a very vulnerable situation right now, so we’re going to get her appeal filed as quickly as possible. Luckily Betsy and I like to think we are the fastest people in the world at filing these types of appeals.  Unfortunately, Aya's case is not uncommon.  These refugee rejections can be based on extremely tangential circumstances.  We’ve had clients get turned away because of a crime committed by a distant relative that they’ve never even met.  One client's case was put on indefinite hold because of his connection to a childhood neighbor that he hadn’t spoken to in twenty years.  Bureaucratic decisions like these can exclude deserving refugees and leave them at risk of further harm.   International Refugee Assistance Project has been very successful with our appeals.  The fact that we have one million signatures on Aya’s behalf is really going to help. Once we can elevate the case to a higher profile, it will be reviewed at a higher level with more careful scrutiny.  We have so many people watching over this case. And after interviewing Aya about her family history, I’m feeling very good about this.  We'll keep everyone informed every step of the way.

This is Lara ‘The Terminator’* Finkbeiner.  Along with Betsy ‘The Hammer’* Fisher, she will be spearheading Aya's case.  Betsy is represented by the intercom because she is working from Minneapolis.

*Nicknames assigned by me and may or may not be in common usage.
Before we move on from Aya's story, I want to introduce you to our allies who will be handling the next phase.  The International Refugee Assistance Project is a refugee advocacy organization that organizes lawyers and law students across 27 law schools and 60 law firms.  Last year, they turned a one million dollar budget into ten million dollars in legal services to refugees.  They are very good at what they do, and have helped resettle thousands of refugees.  Appeals filed with their assistance have a success rate many times the normal average.  We had a long meeting today, and everyone is very energized and optimistic about Aya's appeal.  After conducting long interviews with Aya, the team thinks that Aya is remarkable"  and has a very strong case."   Adding, We also love George."

Aya's new legal team is headed by Becca "Mama Grizzly'* Heller, who founded IRAP along with fellow students from Yale Law School.  She was accompanied to the meeting by 'Baby Anna' Heller, who took her first car ride today.  Mama Grizzly* will be firing all her guns, and tells me that because of Aya's vulnerable situation, she will be expediting the case to the maximum of her abilities.

*Nickname assigned by me and may not be in common usage


(11/11) Six months ago my father disappeared. He left one morning and didn’t come home. That morning he answered the phone one time, and he said: ‘I’m fine, Aya. I’ll be home soon.’ And he never answered the phone again. You can’t imagine what this has done to my mind. I don’t know if he is dead. I don’t know if he remarried. I know nothing. All day and night I must imagine what has happened. I haven’t even told my younger sisters. I tell them that Daddy went to Istanbul to work but he will be home. They wouldn’t be able to take it. I still post old photos to his Facebook page so it seems like he exists. But it’s been six months, and they want to know why he hasn’t called. I promise he’s a good person, really. I love him so much. He loved me too. He always told me that he was proud of me and I was going to be something in life. But how could he leave me like this? How could he leave all of this on my shoulders? I’m twenty years old. I can’t handle all of this by myself. I don’t need him to work, or make money, but I need him. I need my Daddy. I can’t do this alone much longer. I’m getting tired. I’m a warrior and I’m strong and I’ve fought so much but even warriors get tired. I’ve been having crazy thoughts lately. I don’t want to do it. I’ve been through so much. I wanted to go to school and be something in life. But I can’t do this much longer. I’m alone here and I’m in a very bad place. I feel very scared. I never wanted to be the traditional Arabic girl who marries her cousin and spends all day in the house. I’ve worked so hard to escape it all. And I know it’s dangerous. But if things don’t change for me, I think I’ll have to go back to Iraq.As of now, 4% of the HONY community has signed the petition supporting Aya’s appeal for American resettlement. It would only take 6% of the community to reach a million signatures. Please consider adding your voice. And if you know someone else who might care about Aya’s story, please consider sharing:


(10/11)  It was like a nightmare.  I fell on the floor and started screaming: No, no, no!’  I cried for days.  I couldn’t go to work because my eyes were so red.  I went to the hospital and they had to give me medicine to calm me down.  Security related reasons?  What can that mean?  They don’t know my family.  I know my family.  My father was a train driver.  Every male in our country had to do military service for six months when they were young, but he only did the radar.  He swore to me that he’d never even touched a gun in his life.  Our family loved America.  My father always told me about America.  He made us go talk to American soldiers during the war.  Other people were afraid of Americans, but he told us they were here to help us and not to be afraid of them.  He told us that America was a place where so many different people lived in peace.  So many religions.  So many communities.  We loved America!  Every day we watched Oprah.  My father promised me that one day we would go on her show and meet her.  We even wrote about Oprah for our assignments in school.   Why would we ever hurt America?  All of my dreaming ended on the day this letter arrived.  I became a person without hope. As of now, 3.5% of the HONY community has signed the petition supporting Aya’s appeal for American resettlement. It would only take 6% of the community to reach a million signatures. Please consider adding your voice:


(9/11) We applied for resettlement in America. We did all our paperwork. We had two different interviews in Istanbul. Then we waited for a very long time. For months I kept checking the website, but it always said: "Case pending.' Then one night my friend called me, very excited. It was midnight. She told us there had been an update on the website. I ran to the computer, entered our case number, and it said ‘Case accepted!’  I zoomed in on the word 'accepted' and my hand started shaking. I screamed to my family: ‘Turn off the TV! We’re going to America!’ It was like a wedding. We turned on the music. We started dancing and crying and kissing each other. A new life! The United States! We couldn’t believe it! Over the next few weeks I spent so much time on the computer. I searched for schools for my brother and sisters. I found the university I wanted to study in. I found a hospital for my mother. I was searching for jobs for my father.  I had everything planned. I even found extra clothes for George because I thought it might be cold. In the evenings I’d sit with my sisters and help them plan what their rooms would look like. And Christmas time was coming. We thought we would go to New York during Christmas time! We were even planning to see the big tree!  For two months we dreamed like this.  Then a letter came in the mail. As of now, over 3% of the HONY community has signed the petition supporting Aya’s appeal for American resettlement. It would only take 6% of the community to reach a million signatures. Please consider adding your voice:


(8/11) My years in Turkey have been the hardest four years of my life.  When we first arrived from Syria, we couldn’t communicate with anyone.  I had no friends.  If we wanted an egg from the store, we had to make chicken sounds.  I paid for everything in this apartment by working as an interpreter for an NGO.  We started at a zero and I built us up to a six, all by myself, and I’m very proud of that.  But we can go no further without citizenship.  I can’t get a degree.  I can’t work any other job.  Turkey has taken many refugees and we should be thankful for that.  And the people here were nice to us at first.  Our neighbors brought us rice and food.  But then more refugees came.  And more.  And then everything changed.  Now people shout at us in the streets.  They tell us to leave.  But we have nowhere to go.  A man recently started sending me messages on Facebook, saying: ‘Get out!’  I didn’t even know him!  Why me?  Why did he choose me?   We’ve had to switch apartments four times because our landlord decided that Arabic people are no longer allowed.  I’ve been hit by a car.  My sister got hit in the face at school and lost two teeth, and now her vision is bad in one eye.  Being a refugee is really hard.  They blame us for everything.  They blame us for no jobs.  For crowded streets.  For crime.  They say that we are the reason for everything bad.  And if war ever comes to Turkey, we’ll be the first to die.  Because they’ll blame us for that too.As of now, 2.5% of the HONY community has signed the petition supporting Aya’s appeal for American resettlement. It would only take 6% of the community to reach a million signatures. Please consider adding your voice:




(7/11) George is my refugee dog. We’ve been through many horrible things together. I found him in Baghdad when he was just a puppy. My father and I were driving down the road and I saw some teenagers holding George by the ears and hitting him. I jumped out of the car and begged them to stop and gave them all the money I had. George was so thin and dirty, and the doctor said he was very sick and he’d only survive if I took perfect care of him. And look at him now! He’s been with me through Iraq, Syria, Turkey… everything. Whenever he sees me crying, he jumps in my lap and uses his paw to pull my hands away from my face.As of now, 2% of the HONY community has signed the petition supporting Aya’s appeal for American resettlement. It would only take 6% the community to reach a million signatures. Please consider adding your voice:




(6/11) I was fourteen when I arrived in Syria. Those were the best two years of my life. The first day we arrived, I made my father take me to school so I could register. I was doing so well in school. I got very good grades. I got so many awards and my teachers kept telling me that I had a very bright future. They told me: ‘One day Aya, you will be the voice of refugees.’ On the weekend I was volunteering to help other refugees. I organized an entire chorus of refugees. Things were going so well. My father was working as a driver. We were very comfortable. Then war came to Syria. It began for me as a bomb threat at our school. Then people began killing each other in the street. I was studying one afternoon, and I looked out the window, and a man smashed another man’s head with a stone. Right in front of me. Our landlord told us: ‘I am leaving the country. Everyone must go.’ So again we became refugees. We put everything we had into six bags, and we left. As of now, 1.5% of the HONY community has signed the petition supporting Aya’s appeal for American resettlement. Please consider adding your voice:


(5/11)  Our house in Baghdad was located near a military compound, and the militia officers wanted it for themselves.  They sent three men to our house to order us to leave.  When my father refused, they mailed us an envelope with bullets inside.  My father was working as a library security guard during this time.  The militia went to the library and murdered my father’s coworker—thinking it was him.  My father became very scared when he heard this.  He told us we had to pack all our clothes into bags and leave Iraq immediately.  It was the middle of the night.  I didn’t want to go.  I didn’t want to leave my bedroom or my school or my friends.  I wasn’t even allowed to say goodbye to anyone.  Nobody knew we were leaving.  When the taxi arrived, I held onto the doorframe and screamed that I wasn’t going.  My father pulled me away and told me that we were going to live in a better place.  That night we drove to Syria. As of now, 1% of the HONY community has signed the petition supporting Aya’s appeal for American resettlement.  Please consider adding your voice:


We’re currently in the middle of a series about a young Iraqi refugee named Aya.  As many of you know, Aya’s story does not yet have a happy ending.  After years of hardship, her application for resettlement in the United States was rejected. She has just begun an appeal process.  As we learn the rest of the story, if you feel inclined to lend your voice in support of her appeal, I have created a petition for that purpose.  It’s not a petition, actually.  We’re not asking that any action be taken.  It’s an invitation.  It’s an invitation for President Obama to join us in saying: ‘Aya is important to us.  We do not believe she is a threat.  And we think she deserves to be here.’   When I read the language of our invitation to Aya last night on Skype, she began sobbing.  She has been carrying her story alone for years, and she had almost given up hope.  And now someone cares.  Aya is sleeping now.  But when she wakes up tomorrow, I hope she sees just how many of us care.

Please, consider becoming A Friend Of Aya:

(4/11)  These things are very hard for me to remember, but I try not to cry because I want to be strong for my mother.  It was hardest for her because she had children.  During the war she had to worry about herself, but she also had to worry about us.  It made her very ill.  Her blood pressure is very high now.  Her hand shakes.  She has bladder problems.  But she is my hero because she always protected us.  One time when my father wasn’t home, a strange man entered our house.  But my mother pretended to be a man and screamed downstairs in a very deep voice.  And she saved us.

(Gaziantep, Turkey)
(3/11)  After Miriam died, I began to have silly thoughts.  I thought that I was supposed to be President of the World.  It sounds funny now but I was just ten years old. I thought that if I was really clever in school and got all the best marks, I would become a leader and I could stop the war.  I could just tell everyone to love each other and they would listen to me.  I taught myself English during this time.  I would listen to American songs and translate every word.  I’d watch Hollywood movies.  I’d practice talking to myself in front of the mirror every night.  I’d even give gum to American soldiers so I could have conversations with them. I thought maybe if I just concentrated on my studies, I could avoid the war.  It worked for two years.  But one day I was driving with my father and a car bomb exploded ahead of us.  I got out of the car because I thought that maybe I could save the people but there were hands and heads in the street.  Everyone was dead.  It was like a horror movie.  It was like Titanic but it was really happening and it was in the street.
(2/11)  This is a photo of me right before the war came.  Maybe my parents knew the war was coming, but they didn’t tell me.  I wouldn’t have understood.  I didn’t even know the meaning of war.  Bombs started falling all around us.  We lived very near one of Saddam’s castles.  My mother told us: ‘It will be very loud, but nothing bad will happen to us.  We will all be here together.’  Many houses in our neighborhood were destroyed, but I’d close my ears and sing songs whenever the bombs came close.  In the cartoon shows, the good always wins, so I thought that we were good and nothing would happen to us.  Then one day I heard a big sound and I saw that my best friend Miriam’s house had been destroyed.  We walked to school together every day.  I went to see if she was OK and I saw Miriam on the ground.  She didn’t have any legs and she was screaming and I can still hear that sound now.  They pulled me away but I saw everything.  I don’t think it was good for a child to see this.

(Gaziantep, Turkey)
(1/11) When I was a baby I came very close to dying.  I’m not sure how to say the name of the disease in English, but all the water in my body started to dry.  I couldn’t gain weight and I became very weak.  This was during Saddam’s time, and the hospital staff told my mother that in two days they would euthanize me.  But my mother refused to accept this.  She called everywhere and found a clinic in Jordan that said they could give me treatment.  There was an American doctor there who saved my life.  We stayed in Jordan until I was seven, and then we moved back to Baghdad.  One day I was playing in our garden and I heard very loud noises and the sky was really red and everyone was screaming.  It’s very hard to describe.  It was like there was blood in the sky.

(Gaziantep, Turkey)
Yesterday I got an email from Edward Norton, asking if he could host a fundraiser for the scientist in Tuesday’s story.  I said: ‘Of course Edward Norton.  Also, you were awesome in Birdman.  Also, let’s hang out.’

I’ve rarely been shaken by a story more than the scientist’s.  His life had been so tragic, but throughout the entire interview, he kept returning to his desire to help mankind.  He didn’t want to die before making a contribution to humanity, and he felt that he was running out of time.  While listening to him, I kept imagining how difficult it would be for him to focus on any sort of research while starting a new life in America.  Despite his lofty accomplishments, he might have to take whatever job (or two) he could get just to keep up with rent.  Hopefully this fundraiser will change that, insuring that he can focus his amazing mind on his dream of changing the world.

Consider Donating Here:
I am going to do one last book signing this year at the main branch of the New York Public Library on Tuesday, December 15th.  My friend Helene helps manage the bookshop, and told me that if she sells 300 HONY Stories books by Christmas, she is going to reward herself with a vacation to India.  I told her that I’d do a signing if she overcame her fear of photography and posed for the announcement post, to which she replied: ‘Oh God.’  I also told her that she was required to wear a Christmas sweater at the event, to which she replied: ‘I’m Jewish.’  So if you’d like to meet Helene, who will be wearing a sweater vaguely suggestive of the holiday season, come to the main library between 3 pm and 7pm on December 15th.  I will also be there signing books.  All proceeds go directly to benefit the library.


(4/4) We even tried to stay in our home after my father was arrested. I wanted to go right away, but my father was too afraid because he thought we’d be stopped at a checkpoint and he’d be taken again. But two months later, my son was hit by a motorcycle outside of our house. His face was burned and bruised and his leg was broken. There were no more ambulances in our town, so I had to bring him to the hospital myself. When I got there, it was empty. There were no doctors left. I had to wrap his leg myself with the help of an anesthesiologist, but I messed it up. I knew then that we had to leave. When we get to America, the leg will need to be broken again.(Amman, Jordan)




 Ten days passed and we hadn’t heard anything. So we were starting to lose hope. Then one night there was a knock on the door. We didn’t have electricity in the house so it was very dark. I was very scared. I thought the soldiers were coming back for me. When I opened the door, I didn’t even recognize him at first. He was very dirty and barefoot. I thought he was from the street. Finally I realized that it was him and I started crying and screaming: "My father is home! My father is home!' But he didn’t say a word. He didn’t want to talk for a long time.(Amman, Jordan)


(2/4)  While they were searching the basement, some shooting began on the streets outside, and the soldiers grew very nervous.  I tried to make friendly conversation.  I wasn’t worried because there was nothing in our house to find. But they grew very cold.  They said: ‘We can’t trust you.’  They grabbed me and led me to a van.  I told them: ‘I’m an old man.  I’m not a threat.’  But they didn’t listen.  On our way to the prison, they kept stopping on the street and collecting more people.  They blindfolded me when we arrived and they beat me very badly.  Then they put me with seventy other people in a room smaller than this one.  It was very cold because it was December, and I was barefoot because I’d lost my slippers.  There was nothing but a hole in the ground for a toilet. We all had to face the wall.  Anyone who looked toward the door would be shot.  We stayed there for ten days.  I barely slept or ate.  There was no room to even sit down.  Occasionally a guard would throw bread through the window for people to grab.  I thought I’d eventually be executed.  But on the eleventh day, they called my name, and released me out into the cold to find my way home.

(Amman, Jordan)
  We saw on the television that other countries in the region were having political problems, but they always seemed to fix themselves.  So when people began to demonstrate in our town, we didn’t think much of it.  Then the government began to crack down by arresting people.  People were disappearing.  So I made a point of being very non-political.  I avoided the areas where demonstrations were occurring.  I wouldn’t even associate with people who I knew were political.  But one night a group of soldiers came to our house and asked for our IDs.  They seemed very nice.  They were polite.  So we felt very relaxed.  My father brought them downstairs to examine the basement.  We didn’t see him again for eleven days.

(Amman, Jordan)
(3/3) They are too young now, but one day I will tell them about Syria.  They are already asking questions.  The oldest one overhears us talking on the phone to our family back in Syria.  She asks us: ‘If our aunt is hungry, why can’t she just buy bread?’

(Amman, Jordan)
(2/3) Life had been going so well for me before the war came. I’m a driver, and I’d just saved enough money to buy a new car. I was starting a family. My father had given us a house and we’d bought all new furniture. But one day a mortar destroyed a wall of our house. It was too dangerous to stay. I left because of the children. The years we’ve spent as refugees have been very tough, but we’ve just learned that we’re going to Detroit, Michigan. I have a brother-in-law who says it’s very nice there. He says he is allowed to work legally and officially. So hopefully I can start driving again. He says there is heating in the houses and the water is warm when you shower. And he says that America cares about children. He tells me that there is a bus that picks them up and takes them to school.

(Amman, Jordan)


(1/3) Sometimes I sit by myself and I blame myself for leaving Syria. I used to own my own business. Now I’m working as an employee in a dairy shop. I have nothing here. When I feel nostalgic about Syria, I remember the smell of jasmine in my back garden. I remember my four best friends. We were always laughing and joking together. On Friday mornings during the summer, we’d wake up early to drive to the lake and swim. In the winter we’d play cards and smoke the water pipe. But I have to remind myself that Syria isn’t there anymore. Our old town doesn’t even have any food. A bag of salt costs $50 now. And all my friends are gone. One of them is in Egypt, one is in Turkey, one is in Lebanon, and the other was killed by a sniper.(Amman, Jordan)




Last night  wrote a very sweet welcome note to the scientist in Tuesday's story.




I want to take a quick pause from the Syrian American series to announce that we will once again be doing HONY for the Holidays this year. (And by we, I mean Erin, who does 100% of the organizing.) There are many people in New York City who, due to circumstances beyond their control, will have nowhere to celebrate Christmas. I know because I was one of those people when I first moved to New York. I just didn’t have the money to go home. It’s not a good feeling to be alone on Christmas. One of the worst feelings, actually.BUT DO NOT FEAR. There are plenty of families who have room in their heart, and an extra spot at the table, for one more. And we’ll help you find them. Over the past four years, HONY for the Holidays (100% Erin) has matched hundreds of people. And much joy was had by all. So please, don’t let shyness keep you from having a place to go on the holidays. Get in touch. And please, please, please, if you think you may be able to host one more in your home, consider volunteering as a host. Extensive effort goes into learning about each guest, and matching them with hosts. Nobody’s contact info will be shared before both sides agree to a match, and everyone will be well acquainted before the big day. So please consider giving the gift of companionship this Christmas.Please email: honyfortheholidays@gmail.comUnfortunately we are only have the capability to match people in New York City.HOSTS: If you have a place at the table, write HOST in the subject line. Please include how many people you can accommodate, your NYC neighborhood, and a little bit about the gathering you will hosting. GUESTS: If you'd like a place at a table, write GUEST in the subject line. Please include your approximate location and a little bit about yourself!Thanks, everyone. Happy Holidays!




Fevers are very dangerous for him because of his condition. One night he got a fever and there was nothing I could do. The doctors and the pharmacists had all fled our village. It was too dangerous to even go outside. We didn’t even have a phone. All I could do was take his clothes off and wipe him with cold water. He shook all night. At one point his eyes rolled into the back of his head. He was like a body without a soul. I cried all night. The fever broke in the morning but that was enough for me. Three days later we went to Turkey. I’m hoping there will be a surgery that can help him in America. He is very attached to me. He cries whenever I leave him. I just hope one day he’ll be able to tell me exactly what he wants.(Gaziantep, Turkey) 
(7/7)  I still think I have a chance to make a difference in the world.  I have several inventions that I’m hoping to patent once I get to America.  One of my inventions is being used right now on the Istanbul metro to generate electricity from the movement of the train.  I have sketches for a plane that can fly for 48 hours without fuel.  I’ve been thinking about a device that can predict earthquakes weeks before they happen.  I just want a place to do my research.  I learned today that I’m going to Troy, Michigan.  I know nothing about it.  I just hope that it’s safe and that it’s a place where they respect science.  I just want to get back to work.  I want to be a person again.  I don’t want the world to think I’m over.  I’m still here.

(Istanbul, Turkey)


(6/7) I had no problems before the bombing. I think the cancer came from my sadness and my stress. It’s in my stomach. It’s getting more and more painful. The only reason I can speak to you right now is because I’ve taken a painkiller. I can barely eat. I’m bleeding internally. I’ve gone to five hospitals here. They tell me there’s nothing they can do, especially because I have no insurance and no benefits. My friend in America tells me that it’s an easy surgery, but I’m fighting against time. It’s spreading, and I think that soon it will move beyond my stomach. And then there’s nothing I can do. (Istanbul, Turkey)




(5/7) Everything that wasn’t destroyed in our house was stolen over the next two days. We left with nothing. I can’t even pay the rent of this apartment. I’ve been in Turkey for two years now. I’m dead here. I have no life, no respect, and my children aren’t going to school. I have a PhD but I’m not allowed to work without a residence permit. There is a university here that is teaching with a book I wrote, but still won’t give me a job. In order to survive, I’m forced to create designs and give them away to Turkish citizens, who take all the credit and pay me barely enough money to cover the costs of my materials. This year I created blueprints for a giant construction project of 270 big houses. I was paid maybe one percent of what a Turkish citizen would have earned. There is no respect for my work here. Only money is respected.(Istanbul, Turkey)




(4/7) I was overseeing a project outside the city when the missile hit my house. Nobody was around to help, so my son had to carry the pieces of his mother and sister out of the house. He was fourteen at the time. He was so smart. He was the top of his class. He's not the same. Right after it happened, he’d write ‘mom’ in his notebook over and over. He’d cry all night long. Two years have passed but he’s still suffering very much. It’s very hard for him to focus. He gets tired very easily. My daughter was in the house too. She still has shrapnel in her neck. We survived but we’re dead psychologically. Everything ended for us that day. That was our destiny. That was our share in life.(Istanbul, Turkey)




(3/7) I built this compound for my family. I saved the money for it, I designed it myself, and I oversaw the construction. The first missile tore through the yellow house and exploded inside the pink house. It was a government anti-personnel missile. They are not supposed to be used in residential areas. Inside were 116 small bombs, and each bomb was filled with needles and shrapnel. The pink house belonged to my brother and his entire family was torn to pieces. The second missile landed in the green house but did not explode. That was my house. If the missile had exploded, I wouldn’t have any children left. But it only destroyed the top floor where my wife and daughter were. Sixteen people died in the attack. Seven were from my family.(Istanbul, Turkey)


(2/7) Our marriage wasn’t arranged.  We married out of love.  We met when we were students at university.  She was studying law.  We built a family together.  We were a very modern family.  We had good days and bad days and rich days and poor days but we were always together.  We ate every meal together and educated our children well.  My daughter was studying to be a doctor.  My son was the smartest in his school.  We were well known in the community.  Nobody had a problem with us.  We had no affiliation with any party or regime.  Everyone loved us, honestly.

(Istanbul, Turkey)
(1/7)  My parents were supportive of my education, but they didn’t direct me.  My father was a farmer and my mother was a housewife.  They did not know much about science.  But I was determined to become a scientist through my own personal will.  I graduated high school with the third highest scores in all of Syria.  I worked construction in the evenings to pay for my school.  Even as a teenager, I was being given construction sites to manage.  I graduated from university at the top of my class.  I was given a scholarship to pursue my PhD.  I suffered for my dream.  I gave everything.  If I had 100 liras, I would spend it on a book.  My ultimate goal was to become a great scientist and make a lasting contribution to humanity.

(Istanbul, Turkey)
(4/4)  The whole purpose of my trip to Turkey and Jordan was to interview refugees who had been approved for American resettlement.  So when this couple showed me the letter saying they’d been ‘deferred,’ I was a bit confused.  But I continued the interview anyway.  As I learned the rest of the couple’s story, I noticed my UNHCR facilitator typing on her phone.  After a few minutes, she came over to me and showed me the screen.  It was a text message from the main office.  It said: ‘They’ve been approved.  Would you care to tell them?’  So it was my great honor to inform this couple that they were going to America.  This portrait was taken thirty seconds after they learned the news.

(Gaziantep, Turkey)
  We’ve been waiting for two years now.  We've been through all our interviews.  Last week this letter came and said that we’ve been ‘deferred.’  I’m not even sure what that means.  We were very truthful about everything.  We have nothing left in Syria.  I want to continue working as a doctor in America.  Here my hands are tied.  Refugees are not allowed to work.  I don’t have papers.  I can’t communicate with anyone.  I worked my entire life to become a doctor.  I did nothing but study for six years.  I didn’t even have a hobby.  Now I’m doing nothing.  I’m losing hope.  I’ve started to wonder if it would have been better for us to go the illegal way across the sea.

(Gaziantep, Turkey)


(2/4) ISIS needs educated people to support them. None of them finished school. They cannot manage the cities they capture because they have no skills. When they took me to prison, at first they were very aggressive. They kept putting a gun to my head and taking it away. But after a few minutes of this, one of the men began speaking to me in a very nice way. He said: ‘You are an Islamic man. Please, be a good Muslim and help us. We want your wife to open a hospital for us. And we want you to manage it.’ I agreed to everything they asked. I told them I would help. Then the moment they let me go home, we packed our bags and left.(Gaziantep, Turkey)


  I was the only doctor in the area, so when ISIS captured our town, I knew that they would ask me to work for them.  We should have left right away.  One night five men came to our house.  They were wearing masks and they refused to take off their shoes.  Their Arabic was not with a Syrian accent.  They claimed to be searching for weapons and went from room to room.  They knew about me already, because they kept calling me ‘Doctor.’  When they finished searching the house, they arrested my husband.  It was a night in January, so it was too cold for them to start their car.  The engine kept turning over and over.  I thought that maybe a miracle would keep them from taking him.  But then I heard the engine start and they drove away.  I paced in the street all night.  At one point I heard a gunshot in the distance, and I thought for sure they had killed him.  I thought it was all my fault.  We should have left right away.

(Gaziantep, Turkey)


(4/4) Doesn’t she look like an American? The lady who did our interview said that she looks like an American. She’s very excited. She’s young, so I know she’ll be able to learn English very easily. She’s a very smart girl. She’s already decided exactly what her room will look like in North Carolina. She won’t stop talking about it. She says that she’s going to do a lot of swimming and learn how to use the computer. Someone at her school told her that kids in America can do whatever they want and never get yelled at. So whenever I try to punish her, she tells me: ‘That won’t be allowed in America.’(Amman, Jordan) 
  Because I’m a refugee, my life is on pause.  My studies have stopped.  I’m not working.  I don’t have a career.  Because I’m Syrian, I’m not allowed to participate in society.  It’s been years of doing nothing.  I used to be a cheerful person.  I was always invited to parties.  Now I like to be alone.  I’ve become more nervous and aggressive.  I yell over silly things.  I just want to start my life again.  I learned last Thursday that I’m going to a state called North Carolina.  I’m very nervous.  I know nothing about it.  More than anything, I want to finish my education.  But mostly I hope that whatever is waiting for me there is better than what I’ve gone through.

(Amman, Jordan)
(2/4) I knew immediately after my husband’s death that I would have to let go of my dreams.  I fell into a deep depression.  I was going to be a single mother so I’d have to focus everything on raising my child.  I thought that I would never be able to do anything in my life again.  I skipped the orientation for the German university.  I missed my German language lessons.  Everything seemed to be slipping away.  I gave birth to my daughter and moved in with my parents.  When I saw my daughter, I realized that I needed to get my life back on track.  She’d already lost her father.  I didn’t want her to lose her mother too.  So I enrolled at the University of Damascus and continued with my studies.  I graduated once again at the top of my class.  I began to work as a professor while I applied for my PhD.  My daughter was getting bigger.  Everything seemed to be getting back on track.  Then the war came.

(Amman, Jordan)
  I had a very brilliant teacher in elementary school.  She was my role model.  I don’t remember deciding to be a teacher so much as I remember deciding that I wanted to be just like her.  My whole life became about studying.  I’d learn every lesson early so that I could participate in class.  When my siblings were playing games around the house, I’d plug my ears and work on my homework.  Education was my passion.  It was all I thought about.  I didn’t even want to get married.  I finished at the top of my class in both high school and university.  I got a scholarship to pursue my Masters at a German university.  Then I met a man who was very supportive of me going to school, so I decided to marry.  But four months later he was killed in a car accident.  And I was pregnant.  (Amman, Jordan)
(4/4)  We are going to a place called Clearwater, Florida.  I don’t know a lot about it.  I saw Florida on the television and it looks like it’s close to the sea and has a lot of plants.  My dad says the people are friendly and there are a lot of friendly kids there.  I really hope that we can have a small farm and a horse when we get there because my grandmother really loves animals.  I’d like it to be a square farm with lots of flowers and rabbits.  I also hope there is a good tree in Florida because I’d like to build a tree house where we can have some adventures.

(Istanbul, Turkey)
 I was at home when the telephone rang.  It was my mother.  She told me that there had been a bomb at the boys’ school.  I immediately tried to call the school but nobody answered.  Then I tried to call the bus driver but he didn’t answer either.  I imagined the worst.  The roads were closed so I couldn’t get to the school.  All I could do was pace around the house.  Finally the bus driver answered the phone and said that everyone was alive.  The bomb had landed on the playground and only destroyed one wall of the school.  After several hours the roads were reopened, and they came back home.  When I hugged them it felt like the whole world was in my hands.

(Istanbul, Turkey)
(2/4) When I was in second grade, our school got attacked by a bomb.  It was a barrel full of explosions.  We were just opening our books to start the class and it’s hard to describe the sound but it was like a building coming apart.  I ran to the other class to find my brother and he was crying because of the sound.  Our bus left so we didn’t know what to do.  But my brother is so smart.  He ran to the market and called our grandma.

(Istanbul, Turkey)
  I want to be a professor that examines the bones of dinosaurs because I like dinosaurs a lot.  I also want to have a dinosaur but I know that’s impossible.  I love to go to Google and type: ‘Nice dinosaur movies.’  But that uses a lot of the phone so I don’t get to do that too much.  One day I’m going to open a museum full of dinosaur bones.  I’m not sure where I’ll find the bones.  Probably America and France.  Look at this invention we made.  We’ve made a lot of inventions.  You can make really good things out of stuff you don’t need.  We made an alien out of a speaker that we found in the trash, and then we made a person out of milk cartons, and we turned our trash can into a dinosaur because I love dinosaurs.

(Istanbul, Turkey)
He cried a lot as a baby.  By the age of two he wasn’t speaking or eating.  Our local doctor didn’t know what was wrong, but we found a good doctor in Damascus, and he told us that our son had autism.  The doctor recommended a therapist.  On the first day of therapy, he was too scared to even enter the office.  But after a few months of treatment, he was able to concentrate and even write the alphabet.  He went to therapy every week for the next few years.  It was really helping him.  He was learning so many things.  But when the war came, the roads were closed.  We couldn’t go to therapy anymore.  The bombs affected him very badly.  He gets scared easily.  He’s even afraid of the dark.  But the bombs scared him very much.  He hasn’t been to therapy for years.  We have no money or insurance here in Turkey.  We are very isolated.  It seems that all the progress has been undone.  He used to want to learn.  He used to get his books out of the bag and bring them to us. But now he just throws them away.  He can’t sit still.  I’m afraid that we’ve lost too much time now.  But my husband is optimistic.  He thinks that we will find the right doctor in America.(Gaziantep, Turkey)


(2/2) I was an only child, but I had eleven children. I built a whole family. Every Friday I’d cook for them at my house. I’d spend the whole day in my kitchen, and all the grandchildren would come over, and the house would be filled with noise. The word ‘family’ is a painful word for me now. The war scattered my children all over the world. They are in Syria, Lebanon, Germany, and Jordan. I love all my children, but this one here is my soul. He’s always taken care of me. He’s even raised his children to take care of me. His daughters are always asking if I need anything just like their father. Tomorrow he’s leaving for a place called Memphis, Tennessee. I don’t know what I will do without him. I hope they will let me come to Memphis too. Can you tell us anything about Memphis? Are there nice people there? I heard that it is a city of music. I love music.(Amman, Jordan)


 I had to leave the home that I’d spent thirty years building. One day I just had to close the doors, turn the key, and leave everything behind. I'm seventy-two. No one wants to leave home at my age. But I left because I have six sons, and I knew one day the soldiers would come for them. My sons weren’t political. They wanted nothing to do with killing, but that didn’t matter. Good people and bad people were all being treated the same way. I watched soldiers take away the neighbors’ boys with my own eyes. They were good boys. I’d known them their whole lives. But they were led away like sheep. They didn’t even speak up because if they opened their mouths they’d be shot. I knew it was only a matter of time before they came to our house. We left everything behind, but now my family is safe. So I am happy.(Amman, Jordan)


(3/3) Ever since we had our first child, I stopped watching the TV. Everyday I used to watch the news and obsess over what was happening back in Syria. But once we had children, I had to realize that I couldn’t change anything, and the worrying wasn’t helping my family. We learned recently that we will be moving to a state called Michigan. I’m a pessimist, so I’m not going to believe it until we are on the plane. But my nephew is there and he says it’s like heaven. He says it’s very green and has nice nature. When we get to Michigan, I’m not going to turn on the television again. I’m done with religion and politics forever. I only want to worry about milk and diapers.(Amman, Jordan)




(2/3) We met because of a wrong number. But we ended up speaking for a few minutes, and at the end of our conversation, he asked if he could call again. Soon he was calling me every day. It never felt romantic. I never felt that he had bad intentions. It just felt like he needed someone to talk to. He would tell me every little detail about his day. We’d talk for hours. Those phone calls were the highlight of my days. I was a refugee too. I was also lonely. So I’d sit in my room and wait for the phone to ring. Eventually we met in person. But I’m seven years older than him. I never once expected him to mention marriage. But then one day he asked if he could come speak to my family.(Amman, Jordan)




(1/3) I was studying Literature and French Philosophy when the war came. I wanted to be an Arabic teacher. I didn’t want to be a soldier. I didn’t want to kill anyone. I had no interest in religion or politics. But all the young men were being forced to join the army, so when it came time to renew my papers, I ran. I only packed a small suitcase. I was planning to stay in Jordan for maybe a month until things calmed down. But when a month passed and the war hadn’t ended, I thought: ‘Maybe two months.’ Then: ‘Maybe three months.’ But after three months my mother told me that our house had been destroyed. She sent me a picture on the phone. Everything was rubble. There was nothing to go back to. But I had nothing in Jordan. I’d run out of money. I didn’t know anyone. I was homeless. I felt so alone that I wanted to kill myself. Then one day I tried to call a friend's phone but a strange voice answered.(Amman, Jordan)




I’ve just returned from a trip to Jordan and Turkey, where I had the unique opportunity to interview twelve Syrian families that have been cleared for resettlement in America. These families have just reached the finish line of a multi-year screening process, and it was quite an emotional experience to meet with them at this juncture. The life of a refugee in America is by no means easy. But for these families, their resettlement has finally brought the possibility of an end to years of intense hardship. I’m very much looking forward to sharing their stories with you over the coming days.




(3/3) This time of year always makes me sad because we met at Christmastime and fell in love that winter. He drove a yellow cab during the day, and if I ever called, he’d drop everything and drive to Westchester to see me. I have so many memories of his cab pulling up in a snowstorm. I haven’t changed anything in the apartment since he died. For the longest time I couldn’t even sleep in our bed. I laid a mat on the floor. I don’t cook the foods that he liked anymore. I try to avoid the streets that we walked down together. I used to write letters to him, but that made me too sad. So now I just light an incense on the piano every morning.




(2/3) He’d been married before and had three children. I think he doubted that he’d ever meet someone who’d look past his disadvantages. But I fell deeply in love with him and we married. We only had fifteen years together, but I feel like we loved deeper than a lot of people who were together for forty years. He died the most peaceful way possible. He was in California, visiting his daughter, and he was teaching his grandson to play the piano. And while he was playing he had a heart attack. The first thing he did when he felt his heart stopping was try to call me. When I answered the phone, all I heard was three breaths and the sound of the phone dropping.




(1/3) We both came to America as part of a performance troupe. I was an actress and he was a musician. During the day he worked as a taxi driver, and I remember that he’d always bring pizza and share it with everyone at rehearsal. He was tall like an American. I was very curious about him. One of the other actresses told me that he’d been a famous jazz musician back in Seoul. I'd recently done a performance in Paris, so I was feeling pretty famous myself, and I got up the courage to approach him. We ended up going out for drinks and then to a jazz club. We spent all night talking. We didn’t even sleep. The next morning we drank some Korean hangover soup and went to church.


I’m different than other people.  I’m never sad.  I make my life happy through discipline.  I don’t drink, I don’t smoke, and I eat lots of fiber.  Every day I take a walk in the park to think about my balance.  I've been a chef, a fashion designer, a painter, and now I’m learning martial arts.  I do Tai Chi in the park every morning.  It helps give me energy for my painting.  I have already learned forty-two moves.  I’m ahead of everyone.  I’m almost eighty years old, but all the women in my group think I’m in my fifties.


You know how I got this hat? I was in the Elite German Mountain Troops for two years. We had to be able to ski, climb, then fight at the end of it all. To graduate, we had to do something called the Edelweiss March. An Edelweiss is a flower that only grows at 8,000 feet. So the Edelweiss March is when you carry 50 lbs of equipment for forty miles through the mountains. And at the end, you get this hat.




I’ve been in America since January. But it won’t feel like home until I can get my mom here. For me, home is my mom. It was just the two of us in Panama. We did everything together. The day that I left was a terrible day. We slept together in the same bed that night. We cried in the house, cried in the car, and cried at the airport. I stood at the entrance of airport security for an hour, because we kept waving at each other through the window. My goal is to bring her here. I found a job on the Monster website. I knock on doors for Verizon. I’m supposed to knock on 120 doors a day. It has really been helping me with my English. If I make five sales in a week, I will have my own team. Then if my team does well, then I can be a manager with my own office. If I have my own office, then maybe I can bring my mom to America.




TWELVE HOURS LEFT to get HONY Stories for $10.50 online at Amazon and Barnes and Noble. The book is marked down 50% for Black Friday weekend, and you can get an additional 30% off by using the coupon code HOLIDAY30 (Amazon) or 30BFRIDAY (Barnes and Noble). Both codes are valid until midnight tonight. The book is about $7 cheaper than the lowest price you'll be able to find for the 362 days, after which I'll most likely dress my dogs in Christmas pajamas and remind you again. Happy Holidays!AMAZONHONY Stories: Humans of New York: *30% off Coupon Code: HOLIDAY30BARNES AND NOBLEHONY Stories: Humans of New York: *30% off Coupon Code: 30BFRIDAYBarnes and Noble also has signed editions in every store this weekend, if anyone would prefer those. You can actually print a 30% off coupon here and redeem it at a store, so it would be almost the same price:


Stagnant is too strong a word. But I’m definitely on the brink of needing to decide what I’m going to do."


(3/3) I’ve never been in a relationship.  I haven’t even told my parents that I’m gay.  I was sitting with my mother at dinner the other night, and a gay couple walked by holding hands.  She said to me: ‘I don’t know why they have to do that in public.’  I didn’t say anything.  But I was looking at her, thinking: ‘How do I tell you that’s what I want more than anything?’


(2/3) I have a problem falling in love with straight guys. I really had my heart broken recently. We started out as friends. We were interning together and one day I asked him if he wanted to hang out after work. Then suddenly we started spending time together. And we were sharing details about our lives. And we were shopping together. And cooking meals together. It’s not like we were just going to the bar or watching sports. These were real experiences we were sharing. One night we walked across the Brooklyn Bridge to watch the sunset. And we sat on a rock. And I kept casually touching him, and scooting toward him, but he’d always shirk away. I wanted so bad for there to be something. I’d tell myself that he just wasn’t sure of who he was. But in reality, he just wasn’t interested. I was too chicken to tell him how I felt. We just started hanging out less and less. We don’t talk anymore.




(1/3) My brother hung himself in the foyer of our living room when I was sixteen. It wasn’t much of a surprise. He’d tried twice before. He'd tried to slit his wrists a few months earlier. And a month before that he tried to overdose on sleeping pills. It wasn’t anyone’s fault. My parents did everything they could. They tried taking him to therapy, taking him to church, giving him all the medications that the doctor prescribed. But nothing worked. He was always angry. When I came home from school that day, Mom and Dad were holding each other and promising that they wouldn’t let this tear them apart. And I’ve spent the last three years of my life trying to help them hold their relationship together. I always had to make sure Mom got out of bed. I’d constantly remind her that she wasn’t a failure. I’d tell her: ‘Look at me. I’m doing great. I’m still here. Be with me. Be with Dad.’ Now that I’ve finally moved away from home, I’m realizing that I spent all my time worrying about them. And now I’ve got a lot to figure out about myself.




Simon here. Susie has been reading the same page for ten minutes, so I’ll take this time to tell you that until midnight tomorrow, you can get 65% off HONY Stories online at Amazon and Barnes and Noble. Both retailers are selling the book for $4.50 cheaper than they purchase them from the publisher. Don’t ask me how I know this. I’m a dog.AMAZONHONY Stories: Humans of New York: *30% off Coupon Code: HOLIDAY30BARNES AND NOBLEHONY Stories: Humans of New York: *30% off Coupon Code: 30BFRIDAYBarnes and Noble also has signed editions in every store this weekend, if anyone would prefer those. You can actually print a 30% off coupon here and redeem it at a store, so it would be almost the same price:


We're living in sin."
(3/3)  I had to go back to everyone I knew and tell them that the actress decided not to wear my clothes.  The stylist sent back all ten pieces.  I was so embarrassed.  I felt like a failure.  I got so depressed that I had to move out of the city for a few months and live with my sister in Maryland.  I’ve been doing a lot of praying and going to church.  And I feel at peace now.  I think that God knew I wasn’t ready for success.  If my career had taken off then, I’d have thought it was from my own strength.  I was feeling too proud.  I needed to remember where my talent came from.  I’ve been praying so much.  And I’m in a good place now.  I’m ready to start moving forward again.  And it’s really unbelievable that I just ran into you.  Because I just came into the city for the afternoon to buy some fabric.
(2/3) It began to seem like my destiny was to be a fashion designer.  So many things started happening for me.  I started studying fashion at the Art Institute.  I was invited to show at Fashion Week in South Africa.  I won an award for emerging designers.  Then right before graduation, the greatest thing of all happened.  I got an email from my favorite actress’s stylist.  You have to understand how much I loved this actress.  I used to daydream about being her best friend.  She was my inspiration.  She was the model I used for all my sketches.  And now she wanted to wear one of my dresses during a trip to Kenya!  The stylist requested that I send ten samples to choose from.  I borrowed $5,000 to make the dresses.  I worked for weeks.  I couldn’t sleep.  I even skipped my final portfolio presentation to deliver the samples.  I told everyone: my friends, my professors, and even the president of my school.  Everyone hugged me and said: ‘We aren’t surprised.  You have so much talent.  You were meant for greatness!’  Over the next few weeks, I refreshed the actress’s website all day long, waiting to see my dress.


(1/3) I used to work at a bank in Cameroon. I designed clothing as a hobby, but I never really saw it as a possible profession. There really is no such thing as a ‘fashion designer’ in Cameroon. If you make clothes, you are known as a ‘seamstress.’ When I arrived in America, I realized that it was possible to pursue a career in fashion. At first I tried to become as Western as possible. I tried to change my accent. I wore extensions and straightened my hair. I started wearing high-end name brands. But when I finally went back to Cameroon for a visit, I was able to see my country with new eyes. I’d always viewed the culture as local and primitive because it was all I’d ever known. But having gotten some distance, I could appreciate its beauty. As soon as I got back to America, I cut my hair and sewed myself a traditional dress. I wore the dress to my job at Saks 5th Avenue, and a customer asked me where she could find it in the store. That gave me so much confidence.




For 72 hours every year, Amazon and Barnes and Noble actually sell $30 HONY books for $10. We’ve dressed Simon in his favorite pair of pajamas to let you know: THAT TIME IS NOW. Here’s the math: HONY Stories Retail Price: $29.99HONY Stories Wholesale Price: $14.99HONY Stories for the next three days: $10.50That’s a $4.50 loss on every book sold. Which is a $4.50 win for us. Honestly, these books are so cheap that Santa just shut down the workshop and ordered a bunch of HONY books. He’s sitting on a beach right now getting hammered. For anyone that’s interested, the links are below. Along with the coupon codes you’ll need at checkout. They are valid through Sunday. Happy Holidays!AMAZONHONY Stories: Humans of New York: *30% off Coupon Code: HOLIDAY30BARNES AND NOBLEHONY Stories: Humans of New York: *30% off Coupon Code: 30BFRIDAY


I decided to become a teacher because I knew what it was like to grow up poor, and I wanted to help kids in similar circumstances.  I didn’t expect it to be easy.  But I guess I thought there’d be only one or two kids acting up in class, and everyone else would be paying attention.  Instead it’s only one or two kids who actually behave.  I’m drained every day.  I’ve been teaching for thirteen years.  And if it wasn’t for summer break, I’d have quit already.  Forty percent of my job rating is based on standardized testing.  It’s the only job I know where your performance is based on how other people behave.  I can’t control what’s going on outside my classroom.  I can’t control if my kids are from abusive households, or don’t eat breakfast, or can’t get to school on time.  But those things affect my rating when they show up in test scores.  I need to find a new career where my performance is based on me.


At first I didn't think he was manly enough. He would do anything I asked. He was very easy to manipulate.




I just lost my first tooth. I was at Times Square and I just swished it to the side and it came out and it didn’t even hurt. My cousin Melissa said that that I could write a book about losing my tooth in Times Square. Melissa is also my teacher’s name. I put my tooth under my pillow and I got five dollars and a toothbrush from the tooth fairy. I didn’t see the tooth fairy but my friend Jamie saw it once and said it had wings and a shirt and maybe some pants!


I’d always wanted children, but I just never met the guy.  So I decided to go to a sperm bank.  I started trying when I was 42, and I had her when I was 45.  People always ask me if it’s hard being a single mother.  I say: ‘Yes.  But not as hard as it would be if I didn’t have her.’
Remember the young man from last week who said he wanted to interview the Director of NASA?  Well his name is Max, he just filed his report, and there are already murmurs about a Pulitzer.  After an intense bidding war with all the major media organizations around the world, HONY narrowly edged out the New York Times to secure the rights to the story:

It all started when I was walking with my dad down a street in midtown.  A man, Brandon (an amazing photographer) met me, took our picture and I told him what I wanted to be when I grew up.  I said I wanted to be a reporter and that my dream would be to interview the head of NASA.  And then NASA responded, how amazing is that?  NASA then invited me to interview the administrator today and I learned so much but I’m going to focus on a few things.  First of all, I learned that in 2030 we will be on mars!  Next, Administrator Bolden (a very nice man) told me that 90% of the film The Martian is real except the size of the dust storm because the atmosphere is too dense.  After the interview, we went to the NASA Headquarters Space Operations Center, where I watched the sunrise live from the space station – they see it 16 times a day.  I had so much fun and I hope one day that I’ll be able to work for the news again."

 Max
I've got a little bit of man tits.  I know, you'd never guess.  It's the nipples.  Really big nipples."


It’s our anniversary tonight. He shopped for Mama. Mama got a new bracelet. Mama got earrings. Mama did good. Now we’re going to a steakhouse. I’ve been preparing for this all week. I’ve been cleansing. I took supplements. I’m wearing my Spanx. Don’t tell him that.I’ll say whatever I want. I’m wearing my Spanx. He thinks we’re going to a club later so he can see some booty ass naked women. But we’re going home. Only booty he’s gonna see is me with my Spanx off.




I'm a union ironworker. I built New York City." And I built him. He had chicken legs when I met him. Look at him now."


I took care of my mother for seven years when she got Alzheimer’s.  In a way, the experience boosted my self-esteem because now I know how much I can offer to someone I love.  I’m a ‘ride or die’ chick.
We let our four-year-old name the dog.  So this is Broccoli."
I came from Malaysia as part of a work-study program where I worked as an au pair.  The company assigns you to an American family, and you take care of the children and do ‘light housework’ in exchange for a place to live and $195 per week.  My first year was with a family in Connecticut.  They were very nice to me. But when they moved away I was assigned to a family outside of Boston.  It was a very difficult year for me.  I had no car, no friends, and no activities.  I was supposed to have free time while the kids were at school, but the mother would always cut it short so I could do laundry or start cooking meals.  She criticized everything I did.  One time she asked me to wash winter coats during my free time, and then got mad when I didn’t do it right away—even though it was during the summer.  She treated me like an employee, but then gave me extra chores because I was ‘part of the family.’  I even had to take care of the pets.  I felt trapped because the company made it extremely difficult to get reassigned.  My only other choice was to go back home.  But I was lucky, I guess.  A lot of my friends in the program had it worse.


I thought I’d be a much more secure person at this stage in my life. I thought that if I played by the rules, I’d learn to be happy and becoming an adult would somehow reconcile all my issues. I’m realizing now that nobody grows up. Everyone just grows old.




He just got grumpy at Macy's so we had to leave." There's way too many types of pajamas."




Many of you have been asking these last few days if I could upload all the refugee stories to a single place. I've done that here:




(3/3) I did all I could to find out information about my father, but it seemed that everyone who knew him had been killed. I traveled to Poland and searched records. We hired a researcher. We took out an ad in the paper, asking if anyone had information about Klaudiusz Jamiolkowski or Stanislaw Jamiolwski. But we heard nothing. The closest we came was discovering a family in my father’s village that shared his family crest. Their bloodlines crossed over one hundred years ago, but they had no direct knowledge of my father. I ended up becoming great friends with this family. Then one day, just a few years ago, I got a phone call from that family: ‘Tadzio!’ they told me. ‘The commander of the Polish Home Army just gave an oral history. And he mentioned your father by name!’ I went to Poland and found this commander. He was over ninety years old. He told me that he remembered my father well, because he’d lied about his age to become the youngest soldier in the Polish Home Army. And he confirmed every one of the stories that my father had told me.


(2/3) My father died when I was six. His entire family was killed during the war, so everything I know about him came from his stories. We know that he was seven when the Nazis invaded Poland. He told us that my grandmother had been stabbed and pushed out a window. He said that he became a child sniper and he’d been shot many times. He was missing part of his ear. He told a story about how he was alone in a house that was being attacked. And while he waited for backup, he fired one shot from every window to convince the Germans that the house was full of soldiers. He said he smuggled guns through Nazi checkpoints by hiding them in his school bag. He said he ran messages through the sewer system during the Warsaw Uprising. All of this supposedly happened before the age of twelve. And all of this was told to us during a time when his memory was being affected by the brain tumor. So I grew up never being sure what exactly was true.




(1/3) I was volunteering for Cesar Chavez to organize a grape boycott in Canada when I met my husband. We were meeting at a church when I saw an older man walking toward me. He was so dramatic. He had the most beautiful white hair. He looked like a Polish cavalry officer. Three weeks later I was pregnant. I fell madly in love with him but almost immediately he started dying. I knew that he’d lived through the war. But he never really talked about it. But his brain tumor was growing in the part of his brain that affects memory. And toward the end, he could no longer tell the difference between past and present. So he began to tell these wild stories.




(3/3) We met for a couple hours, and decided to go on a picnic the following week. Our goal was to get on his boat, find a random island, and have a picnic. We were out for about an hour when the sky started getting very dark. We decided to keep going. It started pouring. We jumped in the water and hid under the front of the boat. The rain was cold but the water felt like a bathtub. He took this photo of me and sent me an enlargement. When I got home that night, I started writing him letters. I wrote him one letter per day, but I saved them all, and recently I gave him all seventy of them. The first was from the day on the boat. The last line was: ‘And happiness was everywhere that day.’




(2/3) I’d also been engaged recently. We broke it off in January. I was trying to make some changes in my life. I stopped wearing make-up for a few months to see what sort of things I’d notice if I stopped looking in the mirror so much. I made a deal with myself that I wasn’t going to post any selfies for a while. I was only going to photograph things that weren’t me. I started posting photos of nature, art, and my teacup collection. That began to attract other people into my life who were interested in those things. One night Chris sent me a message. It was a photo of a bridge he’d just taken. We went back and forth for a couple weeks, then decided to meet. A few months earlier, I probably would have never agreed to meet. But I was at a point in my life where I was trying to be open to new things. I told him my only rule was that he couldn’t murder me.And my only rule was that she had to wear her cat glasses.




(1/3) I’d just broken up with my fiancée in May. She left for work one day and never came home, then she mailed me the engagement ring. I was going through a rough time. I’d recently gotten sober. I was managing to stay away from alcohol, but sometimes I’d have to look at my watch and just commit myself to five more minutes of sobriety. One morning I went to a coffee shop and saw they were promoting their hashtag. I was brand new to Instagram, so I was just figuring out how it worked. I typed in the hashtag, and I noticed a post from Whitney. Her hashtags seemed thoughtful, so I followed her.At first I thought he might be a serial killer.




(4/4) She left without telling me. I came back from a dentist appointment and everyone was gone. I went into a deep depression. My friend had to move in with me to keep me from killing myself. She wasn’t allowed to take my kids like that. The court issued a summons, but her father got a lawyer and they took out an order of protection against me. I’m not a bad man. I’m not a bad father. She knows I love my kids. She can’t look me in the eye and tell me that I’m an abusive man. I would never hurt her. But there was something that happened. We had an argument a week before she left. I got so mad and stressed that I grabbed a bat and started smacking the door and the wall. She came out of the kitchen and she caught me in that moment. She was so scared. I’ll never forget the look of terror in her eyes. I immediately dropped the bat. I said ‘I’m so sorry babe,’ but she didn’t want me to talk to her or touch her. It took four days for her to let me kiss her again. Then a few days later she was gone. I haven’t seen my family for a year. I know it was wrong. I’m sorry. But I’d never hurt her or the kids, I promise. I was only hurting the wall.




(3/ 4) We worked so much that Stacy and I barely saw each other. We were doing better financially, but the bills had really piled up. You can’t grow in this city. I was raised in Puerto Rico. When you work in Puerto Rico you buy some land and you build a house. You can see the growth. But nothing grows in this city. You work, and you work, and you work, but you live in a box and nothing changes. It all adds up to nothing. We were surviving, but we always seemed to be on the edge. I could handle it because I’m laid back. I can live my life without thinking about tomorrow. And the kids were fine because they’re kids. But Stacy wasn’t fine. She saw all the homeless families on the street, and the families in the shelters, and she was convinced that was going to be us. She was always so worried. She was stressed all the time about the rent and the food and the bills. She was driving me crazy with the nagging. We kept getting in stupid fights. I kept telling her: ‘Stacy, you’ve got to stop worrying about all this bullshit!’ We did have our little moments where we’d go to the beach or the park and forget about things, and we’d have a moment of peace. But those moments never lasted. Every morning Stacy would wake up and smoke a cigarette, and you could just see the unhappiness in her face. I should have left. I should have given up and moved us all back to Pennsylvania. Instead I started smoking too much weed, and trying some other stuff. And that made it worse.




(2/4) I think she regretted coming the moment we got here. The first time we rode the subway together, a man and a woman started slapping each other on the train. Everyone on the train just pretended not to notice. I remember that bothered her so much. She just wasn’t made for the city. We moved into a small apartment in East Tremont. We set aside an entire room for me to play music. Things were OK for the first eight months. We went to museums and parks, and the kids seemed to be happy. Things were going pretty good. But soon the money ran out. We’d had $14,000 in savings but we burned through that pretty quick. Stacy had to start working at Dunkin Donuts. I had to get two jobs. I was a carpenter during the day, and I worked overnight in the shipping department of a big store on 5th Avenue. Not much was happening with music. Everything cost so much money: studio time, instruments, musicians. It wasn’t fun anymore. Everything was about money. When we lived in Pennsylvania, I’d stood out. I’d been different. I was a guy from the city. Once we moved to the city, I was just a common dude like everyone else.




(1/ 4) I met Stacy in Pennsylvania when I was working for her father. She was a smart girl. She was studying to be an accountant. I think she was really intrigued by me because I was from the city. I had a different way of talking and a different way of acting. I stood out. The way she looked at me—you could tell how much she loved me. And that lasted for a long time. Through our marriage. Through the kids. Everything was going great. We had a car, a family, a house. We had five children. I’d come home at 5:30 or 6:00 every night and I’d get a hug and a kiss. Stacy had her own little business, and she was eventually planning on opening a bakery. She had everything she wanted. But I couldn’t get used to it. I went from the house to the job, from the job to the house. I thought: ‘This can’t be the end of my life.’ I’d always loved playing music, so I thought: ‘If I’m going to do something else, it’s got to be now.’ So Stacy and I made a deal. We’d move to New York for five years while I tried to start a music career. We’d give it five years and if nothing happened, we’d come back. Honestly, she was so in love with me at that point that she’d probably have followed me to Africa.


When he picked me up for our first date, he showed up in high top tennis shoes with the toes ripped open, no laces, and no socks.  He had ripped up army pants with no belt, a mugger ski cap, and three days worth of beard.  I thought: "I can fix him.'  It’s been 34 years of subversive activity to make him presentable.  Every time I do a load of laundry, something ‘accidentally disappears.’
We met at a wedding.  One of his friends bet him ten bucks that he couldn’t get a date with me.  He was so drunk at the time.  When he came to pick me up at my house a few days later, my sister and I were sitting in the living room.  And he wasn’t even sure which one I was.
My dad goes all over the world and learns about the news.   One time he met a king.  I want to be a reporter too.  If I was a reporter right now, I’d probably write a story about if NASA was going to launch a new rocket into space.  I’d start by going to the Director of NASA.  Then I’d ask him about his rockets.  And if any of them were going to space.
(4/4)  I’m thirty-three. I haven’t been on screen in over a year.  Right now I’m down to $50 in my bank account and I’ve got to make $1300 in the next three days just to pay the rent.  There’s a lot of pressure on me right now.  The only reason I’m sitting down is because I needed a break.  I just finished pitching a woman about a spa package, and she talked to me for about ten minutes.  I thought I was going to make a sale.  But then she told me ‘no.’  Honestly, I felt like I was going to start crying.  I had to sit down.  Right now I feel like I’m an arrow that can’t be pulled back any further, and is about to be released.  I feel like I’m heading toward greatness.  Honestly, I have no choice but to believe that.  The path has been so shitty.  The only way I can make sense of the world is to believe it’s leading me somewhere.
 So many people in this city will use your dreams against you.  They capitalize on your desire to be significant.  I’ve spent so much money trying to be an actor.  I’ve worked for free on films that never even got edited.  I’ve paid to be in workshops and agent showcases where people pretend to be interested in my work just to collect my $150 entrance fee.  Then they don’t even have the courtesy to answer my email when I follow up.  I’ve seen so many old geezers cast young women in their films just so they can see their ass or grope them.  It’s offensive.  This is supposed to be art.  How can you take advantage of someone’s hope of meaning something in this world?  That’s as low as it gets.
(2/4) The hardest part about trying to be an actor isn’t the small amount of money I’m making.  It’s imagining how much more comfortable I’d be if I had spent the last ten years of my life focusing on something else.  Right now I’m selling comedy tickets and spa passes to people on the sidewalk.  I’ve been doing this job for years because it allows me to make my own schedule.  I tried selling drugs for awhile.  At first I rationalized it to myself.   I told myself that fried chicken is bad for you, and people sell fried chicken, so I wasn’t all that different from KFC.  But then one night I saw a girl overdose at Pacha.  She was foaming at the mouth and her whole body went stiff.  I hadn’t sold her any drugs, but I realized that I easily could have.  So I just couldn’t do it anymore.  I’d never sell drugs to my little brother, so I shouldn’t feel OK selling them to other people’s family members.
We're having a baby in January so my wife's stomach is getting pretty big.  It’s a very visual life change.  Most of the other life changes we’ve planned for so far have just existed in our minds.  When we planned our wedding last year, we could think about the wedding we wanted, but we couldn’t actually see it.  This is different.  There’s a big change coming.  And we can see it.


I lived in Cobble Hill for 20 years. I had a rent-stabilized apartment. But I got tired of the city. I got tired of the crowds, and the people bumping into you, and nobody saying ‘Excuse me.’ So I had the idea to move to Atlanta and try to open a café. My friends said: ‘Don’t do it. You’ll regret losing the apartment.’ But I was feeling adventurous. I was tired of New York. I knew I made a mistake the first day I was there. I didn’t have a car. I had to walk a mile to Trader Joe’s. There were no cabs anywhere. No fucking cabs. What the fuck? And the hills! So many hills! And the movie I wanted to see was two counties away. Two counties! I don't even want to talk about laundry day. I missed being able to get everything I needed on my block. I missed the sidewalks, and the tall buildings, and the half-priced Broadway tickets, and the restaurants. I can take the crowds now. I can handle it. But I lost my apartment! I don’t know where to live. An apartment that size is going to cost me twice as much now. I can only afford a room. I should have listened to my friends. Oh man, I messed up.


(6/6)  I’m trying to make it on my own.  It’s been a tough road.  I fell behind at our first apartment and we got evicted.  But I went through a job program for women and now I work as a case manager with Coalition for The Homeless.  We moved into a two-bedroom in Bedford-Stuyvesant.  I love my job, but I’m trying to raise four kids on a single income.  We don’t have much extra stuff.  We don’t have cable.  The kids say they need internet for school but we’d need a computer for that, so we just go to the library.  I’d love to hang up nice curtains.  Or paint the house.  But I don’t want to make our apartment into a home because I’m afraid to get too comfortable.  I’ve already come close to missing rent so many times.  I feel like I can never relax.  But I have the most wonderful children.  They never want me to buy them new things.  But I’m afraid that I’m damaging their confidence.  I can’t do anything nice for them.  And I don’t want them to grow up feeling like they don’t deserve nice things.  But at least we’re together.  And we have a home.  And we’re safe.  I tell the girls all the time that we should feel lucky.  I think they get tired of me saying that.  But I honestly feel that we're so lucky.
(5/6)  We’d been at the shelter for just a few days when he showed up.  He tracked me using the GPS on my phone.  The shelter has two sets of sliding doors for security.  You walk through the first door, it closes behind you, and the second door opens.  He jumped inside just as the first door was closing.  The kids started screaming.  He pushed me to the ground.  While the security was dragging him away, he was screaming that I’d stolen his children.  And that everything was my fault.  And it made me feel guilty.  He always knew how to make me feel guilty.
(4/6)  One day the counselor at my daughter’s elementary school called me.  She said that my daughter had spoken up in class about the abuse.  She asked me to come in for a meeting.  I downplayed it because I was scared.  I told her: ‘Thanks for your concern.  But it was nothing, really.  And it’s already stopped.’  The counselor gave me a pamphlet for a place called HeartShare.  HeartShare was just two blocks from my house, so I stopped in one day.  I told the counselor what was happening.  She discussed the option of domestic violence shelters.  But I didn’t want to do it.  I didn’t want to break up my family.  Then one day he beat me so badly in the stairwell.  He punched me so hard that he got blood on my children.  I told the counselor what happened and she said to gather all my papers.  She told me she’d be in a black car on the corner.  I told my husband I was going to the grocery store.  I was so nervous because he timed me every time I left the house.  I still had to pick up the kids from school.  And if I was gone for more than a few minutes, he’d come looking for me.


(3/6) I started to become afraid of him. But I never argued back because I thought it would make him even more angry. He started to pick on me. He’d criticize how I dressed. And how I wore my hair. I remember it used to bother him that I used the word ‘love’ so much. I was an optimistic girl, so I was always talking about how I ‘loved’ things. ‘Stop saying that word,’ he’d say. ‘Why do you love everything? That’s so stupid.’ I remember one night he hit me because I mixed his vegetables with his rice. I became very still and quiet around him. Just like I’d been with my mother. Remember—this was all I’d ever known. ‘It’s normal,’ I told myself, ‘Everyone gets a beating sometimes.’ We had five children together. It’s hard to explain why I stayed. He began beating blood out of me. But then he’d hug me and tell me he was sorry. He’d tell me that he needed me. He told me about his childhood. He told me that his father beat him every day. He told me that he had no mother. He used to say: ‘I see you as my mother.’ And that made me feel good. ‘I need you,’ he’d say. And that feeling of being needed is what kept me in that house. He was the father of my children, after all. I told myself he’d been traumatized. And it wasn’t his fault. But here’s the thing I’d been traumatized too. And I didn’t hurt anyone.




(2/6) Looking back, I don’t know if it was love or lust. I didn’t have anything to compare it to at the time. He started driving me home from work. Then we started going on little dates. Soon we were spending all our time together. I moved out of the group home and began living with him. I cooked for him, and did his laundry, and ironed his clothes. It was natural for me. I’d done all of this for my siblings because our mother would leave us for months at a time. I’d always told myself that I was never going to be like my mother. I was going to be a perfect mom. And a perfect wife. And now that I had the man of my dreams, I’d do anything he asked. The first time he hit me was when I was seven months pregnant with our first child. I woke up to him screaming at me: ‘You see I’m awake, now get up and help me!’ I need help with my insulin!’ I tried to help him with his insulin but I didn’t do it right. So he pushed me on the floor.




(1/6) I grew up in a household where you were beaten for small things. Like breaking a dish. Or asking for food. My mom was very religious, so she’d take us to church and we’d listen to the pastor talk about love. Then she’d still take us to the back room and beat us. I ran away when I was thirteen. I lived in group homes and foster homes in every borough. When I met him, I was working at the supermarket. I was sixteen. He was sixteen years older than me. He had a car. He was handsome. He’d do little things to make me laugh. He’d wait in a long line just to buy a stick of gum from my register. He gave me compliments. I’d never been complimented in my entire life. He called me smart. And pretty. And nice. He brought me flowers. I’d never experienced anything like that before. I felt so alone at the time. I was living at the group home. I didn’t have anyone to teach me about life. I wanted a family. I wanted a protector.




I’m a high school guidance counselor. I’m actually writing letters of recommendation right now. It’s tough to be a teenager. You want to be independent while still having to rely on everyone around you. As adults, we’ve been through it all, and we know what’s coming, and we want to protect them. But they don’t want to be protected. I just hope that every student at my school can find one or two adults that they relate to. And that's going to be a different teacher for every student. But we're getting older too, so it can be harder and harder to be relatable. I have to really work to keep up with the technology and terminology. I had to text my stepdaughter recently to find out what ‘bae’ means.
I went to pick up my daughter and my baby’s mother wouldn’t let me in the house because her new boyfriend was over. I’m trying to get in the door, she’s trying to keep me out, and she ends up on the ground. The police came and got me the next day. They had a picture of my baby’s mother with a single cut on her forehead. My heart sank. My public defender was very nice. She said she believed me. Every time she interrogated my baby’s mother, the story kept changing. First it was I pushed her. Then it changed to I threw her into the wall. Then it changed to I punched her in the face. But my lawyer said it was dangerous to go to trial. She said without a witness, the woman is going to have the advantage. She said if I lose at trial, I could go to jail for seven years. I couldn’t risk that, so I pleaded guilty in exchange for three months. I told the judge: ‘I didn’t do it, but I’m pleading guilty.’ The judge said: ‘If you’re pleading guilty, you did it.’ I did the time, and now a few years later, I’m working a full time job, and my baby’s mother is on trial for robbing a store. But it’s not like I can go back in time and wave that in the judge’s face. Every time my daughter comes to visit, she starts crying and begs me not to send her back home. But they tell me because of the domestic violence charge, they’ll put her in the foster system before giving her to me.


I was watching the girls’ dance class one night when I noticed one girl in particular: beautiful, slim, big afro.  She didn’t wear much make-up.  She was a natural beauty.  But when she noticed me looking at her, she did that face thing. She scrunched up her face like ‘don’t be looking at me.’  But that was the one I wanted.  Back in the 70’s, if you had good words you could say to a woman that was known as your ‘rap.’  But I was shy.  I had no rap.  But I said: ‘Fuck it,’ and I asked to be introduced to her.  We dated for six months.  I took her to movies and parties, but I never made it official.  One day my friend Douglas warned me that she was getting impatient, so I finally asked her to go steady.  But she said: ‘Too late. I’m taken.’  She said she was already dating the lead singer of a band.  I swear she did it just to get a rise out of me.  She had me begging her.  I’d drop by her house.  I’d get her girlfriends to put in a good word for me.  I’d go to all the same parties just to get one slow dance and whisper into her ear.  I finally convinced her.  Last Thursday was our 39th wedding anniversary. (4/4)
The Bernice Johnson Dance Studio made me who I am today.  It kept me off the streets.  I hung around a group of kids who would go steal a car every Friday, but I could never go with them because I was always in the studio.  Learning to drum made me feel proud.  It made me feel like I was connecting to my culture, and also helping to pass it along.  Our teachers took a trip to Africa every year.  And they’d come back and talk to us about the latest dances and beats.  I learned that so much in Africa revolved around the drum: harvest, marriage, circumcision, everything.  I learned that our names were changed when we were brought over during slavery, and so we’re all connected, and you never know who might be your family.  Everyone supported each other.  Bernice had a rule: ‘If you come from my studio, and you make it to the top, you come back and bring five more with you.’  I’ll bet you there were more Bernice Johnson dancers on Broadway than any other studio.
That night Douglas took me to the Bernice Johnson Dance Studio in Jamaica, Queens.  The place was full of black people playing drums and doing African dances.  I’d only been in New York for a few years at that point, and I was still experiencing some culture shock.  Growing up in Georgia, all I’d ever known was black and white.  I’d never really seen Asian people before.  I only knew about Jewish and Italian people from the Bible. And when I arrived at that dance studio, I learned that I didn’t know much about African people either.  I’d only seen Africans while watching Tarzan on the television.  Douglas’s father was the chief drummer at the studio.  I’ve got a picture of him right here.  He became like a second father to me.  He noticed me watching the girls dance, and he said: ‘Quit watching those girls and learn to play the drums.  If you learn the drums, the girls will come to you.’ (2/4)
One day when I was fourteen years old, I was hanging out at the swimming pool at Richmond Hill High School, and this kid named Douglas came up to me.  I was dating a girl named Carmen at the time, so he said to me: ‘I heard you’re going with Carmen.’  I told him I was.  And he said, ‘That’s impossible.  Because I’m going with Carmen.’  We went back and forth for awhile, then decided to settle it right then, so we both hopped onto his bike and rode over to Carmen’s house.  When Carmen opened the door, and she saw both of us standing there, she was so scared that she didn’t know what to say.  Douglas and I became best friends after that.  If you saw one of us, you saw both of us.


I don’t see me living past forty. I’m just too tired. Even at twenty-eight, I feel like I’ve lived one thousand years. Sometimes I feel like I’ve been alive since biblical times. The only reason I’m living is to survive. I work as a janitor now on the Upper East Side. Staying away from people helps keep me from going crazy. Everybody is always at each others’ throats all the time. I just wish something would wipe us off the face of the earth. I mean, I don’t want it to be painful for anyone. I just want it to be over so we can all just get some rest. Unless there’s a hell. Then maybe we’re better off here. (3/3)




My mom knew I was getting picked on at school. I tried not to tell her, but she’d see me come home unhappy every day. She’d open up my binder and see the notes I wrote about hating everyone. She’d tell me to trust in God. And that God was always with me. And not to fight back, because God was working out justice, even if I couldn’t see it. She was the closest thing I ever had to heaven. She was like Mother Theresa. When I was around her my anger would go away. Not completely, but almost. She died when I was twenty-one of esophageal cancer. I feel like The Flash sometimes. His mother was murdered when he was a child, and he’s always obsessing about going back in time to save her. I wish I could go back to a year before they found the cancer, and say: ‘I know you don’t feel anything right now. But you should go to the hospital and get your throat checked.’ (2/3)




I was one of three white kids at the school. I’m actually not even white, I’m Hispanic. But I look white. Every single day I had balls of paper thrown at my head in class. And there’s nothing I could do. If you tell the person to stop, then you’ve got three or four people threatening you. If you tell the principal, then you’re a snitch. And ‘snitches get sliced.’ I saw one kid get beaten really badly on the subway platform. I kept having to transfer classes. The principal asked me why it was me that kept getting picked on. I didn’t know what to say. There were two other white kids, and it wasn’t so bad for them. But they were more ‘street’ than me. So people respected them. I was weak. One time a kid asked me if I smoked weed, and I told him no. I said that I thought drugs were stupid. He shouted to his friends that the white boy called them stupid. And I’ve got four kids around me shouting: ‘Fuck him up!’ ‘Fuck him up!’ I carried so much anger inside of me. I’d watch horror movies and imagine that I was Michael Myers, and I was slaughtering all the people who bullied me. I’m ashamed to admit it, but I’d imagine that we were living in Nazi Germany, and I could report these people to Hitler. I’d never do anything violent. But these were the thoughts I was having. The closest I came to snapping was one day when somebody pushed me in the hall and said: ‘You don’t belong here. This isn’t Columbine.’ And I said: ‘You don’t belong here. This isn’t Rikers.’ But that’s the most I ever pushed back. (1/3)


I’m working at a preschool where we let the kids determine the curriculum.  Say we’re learning about rocks, and one of the children uses his rock to smash a nearby gourd.  Instead of correcting him, we ask ourselves why he likes to smash things.  Maybe he’ll be interested in planting the seeds we find inside the gourd, so we'll try to plan a lesson around that.  If that doesn't hold his interest, we’ll just find more things to smash.


I just finished applying to 27 law schools. I can recite my personal statement word for word."




I lost a baby at the end of May. I was just a little over two months into the pregnancy. I wasn’t showing or anything. And I hadn't announced the pregnancy yet. So I don’t think that the baby seemed real to anyone else. But it was real to me. Every time I passed a children’s store, I’d look in the window and smile. I began to look closely at all the different types of strollers people were pushing down the street. I bought a little monkey for the baby that I carried around with me. I started planning our life together. Then one day it felt like someone was stabbing me in the lower abs. I went to the doctor, and they told me that I’d had an ectopic pregnancy, and the baby was lost. I felt really alone afterward because most of my friends hadn’t even known the baby existed. They couldn't understand how I felt. Part of it was my fault. I didn’t want to talk about it. Yet I still expected everyone to understand.




I wish I could go back to college for the rest of my life.




Chris didn’t tell me he was HIV positive until he began to get really sick. It was 1991, so there wasn’t much that could be done back then. It was the only time we ever argued. I wanted him to take care of himself so he could live as long as possible. He wanted to keep traveling, and drinking, and eating whatever he wanted. He kept working right until the end. Even when he was so sick that he had to be hooked up to an IV feed, he was making plans to go to the Netherlands to choreograph a show. He’d located a doctor there and everything. But he never made it. He began to lose his lucidity toward the end. One night he began to direct us. There were three of us in his hospital room, and he told us to arrange the lamp a certain way, then he had us lift him into the air. He seemed to be somewhere else. I think in his mind he was actually on a stage. (3/3)




A lot of times being a costume designer is drudgery. A director will tell you that he wants a pink dress with blue ruffles, and you just have to follow orders. But the process was so much more with Chris. It was something intimate. He was the creative. He liked ideas, and colors, and shapes. I was the technician. I handled the nuts and bolts of things. He’d tell me that he wanted something ‘crisp.’ Or he’d cut things out of magazines that inspired him. Or he’d play a piece of music that he wanted me to embody. Sometimes he’d just point to an old brick wall with peeling paint, and say: ‘Make me something that looks like that.’ Our work represented our relationship. It was all about the process for me. Chris was more about the accomplishment. I remember how excited he was when one of our shows was featured on the front page of the New York Times’ Arts section. He felt that he was finally starting to be recognized. But it was bittersweet, because he’d started to get sick by then. (2/3)


I was a costume designer, and I joined a famous dance company shortly after moving to New York.  On my first day, one of the dancers told me that she’d met her best friend while on the job.  I remember wishing that I could be so lucky.  When I met Chris, he was still a dancer.  But he was so talented that soon the director was giving him his own shows to choreograph.  We worked together on everything.  We could not have been more different.  I had no interest in being famous.  I grew up in a quiet family.  I didn’t want to have a famous name or make a million dollars.  But both of Chris’s parents had been Olympic skiers.  So Chris wanted to win.  He wanted his name in the paper.  He’d always say things like: ‘That job should have been mine,’ or ‘I could have done that show better than him.’  I’m a born assistant.  I didn’t have that drive but I enjoyed being close to it.  It was like this breeze was coming off him all the time.  He brought 100% of himself into everything he did.  He was the kind of dancer that you'd pay to watch him walk a dog.  I think he valued me because I was a willing participant in all his schemes.  It was exciting just to be around him. (1/3)


Do me a favor and put this picture on Facebook, because I've been trying to send my daughter a picture of this foliage on my flip phone, and it's just not coming out. I've tried every setting."




I have this image of myself as the fun friend who is easy going, always good for a laugh, and always ready to listen to your problems. But I don’t share my own problems because I’m afraid that my friendship will seem less valuable if I do. I’m afraid that if I’m sad, I’ll seem boring. I don’t want people to start thinking: ‘This isn’t fun anymore.’ Or ‘This isn’t what I signed up for.’ So I tend to shut myself off. I’ll tell you all about my interests and activities. But when it comes to how I’m doing, I don’t like to move beyond ‘I’m fine.’ So I have all sorts of tricks to keep the conversation focused on the other person. I’m a great listener. And I love details: ‘Me? I’m great! But what about you? I seem to remember that you were going to dinner with your sister-in-law last night, right? At the Italian restaurant? Was the linguine better this time? Less crispy?’




My cat died about a week before Brook did. Her name was Naja. She used to always nuzzle in between Brook and I, so we would laugh about how she was jealous and trying to come between us. Whenever we’d see a stray cat on the street, Brook would say that Naja had sent a spy to keep an eye on us. I didn’t see a stray cat for a whole week after Naja died. When I finally saw one, I took this photo and sent it to Brook. He texted back that Naja had sent the cat to keep an eye on me. I got a call that night at 1:07 AM. Brook had a heart attack. He passed away before I got to the hospital. I like to imagine Brook and Naja nuzzling together in heaven. It’s one of the things that’s helped me get through these last few months. (2/2)




We were together for about a year. He was my first real relationship after my divorce. We discovered all these strange coincidences in our lives. After we met, we noticed that we had over one hundred mutual friends on Facebook. We found out that we’d both grown up in a corner house off Pickford Avenue in Detroit. We were both writers. We went to the same local library growing up. All of these things seemed so perfect. I thought they showed that we were meant to be together. The coincidences still seem meaningful to me, but now they just seem to mean that we were meant to collide.




I don’t have friends. I don’t have family. But I’m a very popular man all around the United States. I’ve been selected by the Italians to have my work protected by the Vatican. They’re a hard group to get attention from. But they speak to me through body language.




He’s a miracle dog. He’s twelve years old. He had a stroke three years ago where he lost the use of his back legs. And a month ago he fell off an eleven-story balcony, and only broke one rib. Eleven stories! I swear. Google ‘Bonzo’ and ‘balcony.’ You’ll see.




Not sure if this is Facebook material, but she just learned how to say "I made poopy.'"


There's nothing hard about being four."
What do you feel most guilty about?"
My mom doesn't know that I'm married to a man."
Today in microfashion


You should have been here a few minutes ago. The kids were crying from the cold. It would have been a perfect Save The Rhinos advertisement."


Everyone chose their own costume."
Except for Daddy. Daddy has no choice."


I'm an "es-ka-vader!"


Today in microfashion


I came all the way from Wisconsin for a costume contest. I got beat by an eleven year old Grim Reaper."




The man was eventually convicted, but he fled the country before his sentencing and went back to Italy. My father never got the gold bar back. He lost more than the money. The gold represented all of his struggles. When he first came from Ecuador, he worked in the back of a restaurant cutting onions. Then he became the manager of a bar downtown. Then he became one of the best store managers that Party City ever had. Eventually he bought his cousin’s jewelry business because he wanted to work for himself. When he saved up enough money to buy the gold bar, he kept telling us that he was going to pay for my college with it, and my brother’s college, and that he was also going to buy a house in Ecuador. When the gold was stolen, he couldn’t sleep for weeks. He got really depressed. I tried to tell him that it was only money, and that I’d figure out a way to take care of the family, but it didn’t seem to comfort him. I’m at Rutgers now, studying finance. I don’t know what I’m going to do, but I want to figure something out quick so my dad can retire. (3/3)




I drove over an hour to the meeting place, and I set the bar of gold on the table while we talked. I felt a weird energy right away. There were three men. They were Italian. One of them was constantly puffing on one of those e-cigarettes, and could not stop pacing around the room. Another guy was doing all the talking. He was very animated, and talked with his hands, and had a ponytail. He kept telling jokes. He wrote us a check for $265,000, but he told us not to cash it, because in 24 hours he was going to bring the full amount in cash. But the next day he never called. My father started sweating and turned pale. He kept calling the man’s phone, but he never answered. Finally my father called the police to file a report. The police said: ‘Yesterday this man filed a complaint against you for selling him fake gold.’ (2/3)




My dad owns a shop where he buys and sells gold. He has dual citizenship in the US and Ecuador, so sometimes he’s able to buy gold straight from the mines in Ecuador for cheaper than he can get in New York. A few years ago he was given a very good opportunity to buy cheap gold, so he put all his savings into a bar that weighed over 2.5 kilograms. It was worth about $200,000. Not long after he bought it, the price of gold took a sharp fall. My father called me from the store one day, and told me that he’d found a man who was going to buy the gold for last week’s price. He wanted me to get the bar from his bedroom and bring it to him. I was just twenty years old at the time, but I told my dad that it didn’t sound right, and I didn’t think we should be greedy for a few more thousand dollars. But he told me that he’d been talking to the guy for a few weeks now, and that there was nothing to worry about. (1/3)
I'm keeping an eye out for my ex-roommate.  He got drunk, destroyed the apartment, then ran out the side door when I called the cops.  So when the police arrived, I was standing in the middle of a destroyed apartment, looking like a crazy man."
I wish I had more backbone.  We’ve been dating five years, and he seems more willing to walk away, so he has all the power.  Whenever I question something he does, he says: ‘Then maybe we shouldn’t be together.’  I can never bring myself to say the same thing to him.  So if he does something that bothers me, I think: ‘I can stand it.’  But if I do something that bothers him, he says: ‘I’m not going to tolerate it.’
A few weeks ago I was sitting in the Saratoga library doing some sketches, and one of the librarians started looking over my shoulder.  Then suddenly she asked if she could show the sketches to one of her colleagues.  Next thing I know—they are asking me to do a series of Halloween sketches to hang in the library.  It wasn’t my first time in the limelight.  I’d read some poetry before on a public access television show in Queens.  But seeing my art publicly displayed like that was extraordinary.  I felt super.  I felt great.  I still feel great!
Two weeks ago I ran away to Maryland to marry someone I met on Instagram.  Yesterday I ran back home."
I'm going to be a mermaid."
What's the hardest part about being a mermaid?"
Holding your breath."
I recently returned from seventeen days of backpacking on the Pacific Crest Trail.  I took up backpacking after I got through the divorce.  It was my way of regaining some control.  After five years of adjusting everything to her, it gave me something to focus on that was only for me.  I love to plan the trips.  I love to look at the maps, and pick the best trails, and study the elevation profiles so I can choose the campsite with the best view.  There is no pressure when I’m backpacking except for the pressure I put on myself.  In the city, it seems that I always have a reason for being in a place.  I’m in this park right now because my therapy session was half a block away.  But when I’m backpacking, the only reason I’m in a place is just to be there.  And that’s very cathartic. (4/4)
I told her I wasn’t going to leave the home during the divorce.  She tried to scream but I stood my ground.  I slept on the couch.  She locked herself in the bedroom.  Things were so tense that I’d piss in a cup to keep from going to the bathroom.  My lawyer told me to record everything.  So I kept my iPhone on ‘record’ while it was in my pocket.  One morning I was eating breakfast with my son, and she walks in the kitchen and says to my son: ‘Dylan, let’s play a game.  Let’s see if Daddy has a recording device.’  Then she came and started going through my pockets.  I tried to push her hand away, and she said: ‘Dylan come help Mommy search Daddy.’  I kept trying to push her hand away, and she started screaming: ‘Stop hitting me!  Stop hitting me!  Put down the scissors!  Somebody call the police!’  Our nanny ran in the room, sees me holding my wife’s arm, and ran to get help.  My wife reported domestic violence and filed a restraining order.  My hand is shaking just talking about it.
My wife was never happy, and everything had to be adjusted to that situation.  In her mind, everyone was always against her.  She had a constant sense of victimhood.  I saw her journal one day, and without going into detail, I will say it seems that she had a very abusive childhood.  But that translated into a non-stop, throbbing anxiety.  She’d pick fights with shopkeepers.  She went through three different dentists.  She made one of them refund her invisible braces because she could see them.  Her friendships would last an average of four months before she manufactured a reason to break them off.  And she’d always try to get me on her side during these feuds.  If I tried to talk reason to her, she’d claim that I was against her too.  One day my mother’s friend was walking behind my wife on the street, and overheard her talking about getting a divorce.  I’d seen up close how vindictive she could be, so I decided to get a lawyer too.  We’d signed a pre-nup, so my lawyer told me that I’d have very little leverage.  And I knew my wife would chisel anything she could from me.  So my lawyer told me: ‘This is going to be extremely tough, and many of my clients can’t handle it.  But the law allows you to remain in your apartment during the proceedings.  If you stay in the house with her, our one bargaining chip will be her desire to get you out of the house.’ (2/4)
Her previous husband had been a wealthy heir.  So she was used to a high lifestyle.  But before the pregnancy, she seemed to emphatically enjoy my company.  She exuded positivity.  We’d go on vacation and she’d say things like: ‘Isn’t it wonderful here?  The air is so nice.’  She changed when she got pregnant, but I thought: ‘Maybe it’s just hormones.’  I tried to do the right thing so we got engaged.  She needed a very big ring.  She’d taken some gemologist courses, so she dragged me around for weeks while she looked for the perfect stone.  Then she turned her attention to me.  She sent me to a custom tailor.  She made me get a $12,000 watch.  She was so concerned with appearances.  She told everyone that her father was a top executive when I knew he was a middle manager.  In retrospect, you can see the patterns, but in the moment you’re just like: ‘Fuck, hopefully things will go back to normal tomorrow.’
Today in microfashion
She's a very understanding mom.  I just told her that I'm going to tattoo a picture of my dog on my ankle, and she was very supportive."
Well, I was a bit shocked, but she's twenty-one, so she's old enough to decide, even though it's permanent, I support her choice, even though, you know, it's going to last forever and ever."
I noticed at about 5 pm last night that I didn’t have any meetings or conference calls scheduled today, so I decided to take the day off.  I went to Trader Joe's this morning.  Bought some flowers for the apartment.  I think I’ll get a haircut later.  Maybe drop some stuff off at the Goodwill.  So, yeah… not a lot going on here.
I found out last night that HONY Stories debuted at #1 on the New York Times Bestseller List!  Thank you so much for your continued support.  Thanks to all of you who continue to make Humans of New York a part of your day.  Thanks for the millions you’ve given to the charities we’ve supported.  Thanks for the kindness you’ve shown me.  And most importantly thanks for the compassion that you continue to show toward the subjects on the blog.  I’m not sure how to adequately express my gratitude, but I do want to assure you that I don’t take your support for granted.  I’m constantly asking myself how I can be doing a better job at this.  I feel like HONY is getting better.  I’ve certainly matured as a person over the past five years, and I hope the work has matured as well.  Thanks for giving me the time, the acceptance, the resources, and occasionally the forgiveness to figure this all out.  I hope we have many more years of sharing these stories.  Because I truly love this work.
I don’t think I’ll stay in the city much longer.  Everything is so expensive that it’s just too hard to get by.  We came here because we felt that we’d exhausted all the opportunities in the town that we grew up in.  We’d already built a reputation locally and played in all the bars.  So we decided to move to New York so we could continue growing.  I guess I imagined that there would be a sort of domino effect.  People would hear about us, start coming to our shows, and things would really bloom from there.  But it’s been a much slower process than I expected.  It’s really hard to stand out in the city because there are thousands of bands here competing for attention.  You learn pretty quickly that an RSVP on Facebook doesn’t mean the person is actually going to show up.
My dad left us at a very young age and my mom didn’t know English.  We never had anyone to help us with our homework.  My stepfather beat us every day.  Sometimes he’d whip us with extension cords.  When I was thirteen, I threw a brick at him and broke one of his ribs so I had to run away.  I moved into a crack house where they let you sleep there if you helped sell drugs.  I live in the shelter now.  I’ve spent over twenty years of my life in prison.  I want my son to have a different life than me, but I can’t even help him with his homework.  I don’t know my times tables or anything.


I met John in India while studying in a Hindi language program. He did all sorts of exciting things. He was from San Francisco and worked for all these super lefty politicians. In his twenties, he pretended to be a teenager so he could go back to high school and write an article about it. He did philanthropic work in African rain forests. Life with him was like a long vacation. Every day was an adventure. He’d literally wake up every morning and say: ‘Today’s an adventure.’ We dated for nine years. But he didn’t want to get married. He didn’t want to have kids. And even though he wanted to save humanity on a macro scale, he just wasn’t that warm. I never felt like I could come home in a way. So eventually I ended it. I met my current husband online. He was ‘all in’ from the very beginning. He doesn’t live in a rainforest, but he feels like home. If my sister sends me a picture of my niece wearing huge sunglasses, he doesn’t roll his eyes. He laughs even harder than I do.


I met Mom when I was 14.  I needed a new home so the agency set up a meeting.  I’d been in many foster homes at that point.  The caseworker knew that I was very shy, so she encouraged me to speak up during the meeting.  But I didn’t know what to say.  I’d been abused so much at that point, the only thing I could think to ask was: ‘Are you good?’


I found myself in my forties and I’d never had children. And one night I was watching a show on television, and it was talking about how many older children are in foster care, and I decided it was something I should do. I work now as a counselor who advises families considering older adoptions. So many foster children get returned to the system when they hit their teenage years because the parents have unrealistic expectations. People expect foster children to be grateful and well behaved and respectful. But many of these children have been traumatized, abandoned, and hurt. They are going to push your buttons just like any other teenager, and they are going to force you to deal with your own issues. It requires a lot of patience to give them the time, support, and space to process their life.




I’m studying to be a rabbi. I’m a little worried that I’ll be out of a job because less and less people seem to find religion meaningful. It’s getting to the point where it seems crazy or stupid for someone my age to believe in God. I see God most in my relationships with other people. Victor Hugo said that ‘to love another person is to see the face of God.’ I think our capacity to love is uniquely human and naturally connects us to something higher than ourselves. I even think that loving a baseball team can be a religious experience. I was here in 2012 when Santana pitched his no hitter. Everyone in this stadium was holding their breath at the exact same time. And when the game ended, everyone screamed with the same joy. We all felt so connected at that moment. And I think that was holy. That’s the feeling I want to create in my synagogue.


I’ve been so lucky to have two wonderful men in my life. My first husband died when I was 55. For six months, I did nothing but work, come home, feed the cats, and go to sleep. It got to the point where I realized that I was either going to rejoin the living, or I was going to crawl in a hole and die. I mentioned to a friend that I was about ready to ‘get out there’ again, and she told me about a friend named Ted that she wanted me to meet. He was also a widower. I never thought I’d fall in love again. Certainly not that quickly. But Ted and I got along so well that two months later we were engaged. Ted has never felt threatened by my love for my first husband. On the ten-year anniversary of his death, Ted helped me organize a memorial. And that meant so much to me. But he doesn’t come to Mets' games with me. He’s a Yankees fan.


I can take your immune system and transplant it into a mouse that I’ve genetically engineered to have no immune system of it’s own, so that I can model the genetics of your immune system and find immunoregulatory defects that will determine how you are going to respond to the cellular therapy needed to treat your disease.
I dropped out of college when I was nineteen, and now I’m going back at the age of thirty.  I didn’t think I needed a degree for the longest time.  I travelled a lot, and I've always been employed.  But it’s just gotten too embarrassing to keep explaining why I don’t have a degree.  It’s a deal breaker with most women at this age.  They might spend the night with me, but they won’t call me in the morning.  So I’m going back.  But I’m much more focused now.  I’m impatient.  I’m the oldest one in my class, so I don’t even want to socialize.  I have no interest in getting a beer with you after class.  Unless you’re good at trigonometry.
I lost my ID twenty years ago, and haven't been able to get a new one, so technically I don't exist.  But for the record I do exist, my name is Paul Ambrose, I was born on July 4th, 1948, I grew up in Tennessee, and on the day Martin Luther King was killed, I said "fuck this shit' and bought a bus ticket to New York because it was $20 cheaper than a ticket to California."
When I was first learning to drive as a teenager, it was a completely different experience depending upon whether my father or mother was in the passenger seat.  My mother was calm, so I was able to make good decisions.  But my father criticized everything I did, so I overthought everything and would end up making mistakes.  And that’s what my marriage was like.  I based all of my decisions on how my wife would respond.  Once we got divorced I moved into a small apartment.  And the first morning at my new place, I slept until 11 AM.  I hadn’t done that in years.  And it felt great.
We were two incompatible people, and I made my share of mistakes, but it just seemed like nothing could ever make her happy.  I sensed that she was upset even on the night of our wedding.  She had just met my parents for the first time, and my dad was a scientist, and he showed slides from my childhood where the whole family was wearing mismatched plaids.  She was a sophisticated Southern California girl, and I think that it began to dawn on her that I didn’t fit her idea of a Prince Charming. After that it was twenty-eight years of going downhill.  We should have ended it.  But both of us came from a religion that taught us if you went to church together, and prayed together, then everything would fix itself.  But nothing I did made her happy.  She wanted a house, so I bought a house and spent one thousand hours remodeling it.  She claimed that I had no style, so I tried to wear new clothes.  I tried dying my hair.  She complained that I didn’t know how to dance, so I privately took dance lessons for two years.  But when I finally surprised her by taking her out to dance, she was unimpressed.  I even went to a hypnotherapist to try to be more exciting.  But in the end, she basically said: ‘You’re a great father and a nice guy.  You’re just too boring.’’


I got into a very desperate situation last year. I was under a lot of stress because my dad was in the hospital with a terminal illness. I didn’t have much income, my credit was bad, and I needed a new place to live. So I responded to a listing on Craigslist. And because of my desperation, I ended up living with a hoarder. I was completely despondent. So for the next two days, I walked around New York and asked hundreds of people to say a prayer for me. Or if they didn’t want to pray, I asked them to say something nice to me. Most people just said: ‘God bless you’ or ‘I hope things work out.’ I asked priests, monks, bank tellers, security guards, homeless people, mentally ill people… everyone. I’d say that I approached about 200 people. Then at the end of the two days, a post from a friend popped on my newsfeed. It said: ‘I have an empty room and need someone to move in today.’ So one of those prayers worked. I’m just not sure which one it was.




Reviews are just starting to pour in for Luis’s performance at the book launch last night. A new era has dawned in book launches, said the chief book launch critic of a major international newspaper. Luis has set a new high water mark that might not be matched for decades. Another world-renowned book launch critic, known for her unrelenting cynicism, could not help but gush: It might have been the best knock-knock joke that I’ve ever heard—hilarious, yet nuanced, and ultimately hopeful. And that brain teaser kept me awake all night! The event culminated with a special surprise from Ricky Syers, who presented Luis with his very own marionette, who quickly made friends with Mooshe The Guinea Pig. Mooshe was also praised by critics for a quiet, understated performance that helped highlight the forceful brilliance of Luis.




I want to design Lego sets. I already have two ideas: "Attack On The Bat Cave' and 'Attack Of The Supervillians.'"




IT’S RELEASE DAY! HONY Stories is now available wherever books are sold. Always a fun day because I get to see the pictures and posts pour in from everyone who’s book just arrived on their doorstep. Hope you guys love it. I gave it everything I had. For anyone who hasn’t gotten a copy yet and would prefer to remain on the couch, the book can be ordered online for 40% off:AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND:




I had one friend, but he went to the next grade. To make a friend, you have to talk to them which can be very hard. Most of the time, when I try to talk to them, I fail. Everyone thinks I’m a geek. I want to be a lawyer when I grow up. But just a defense lawyer. Because I’m much better at defending people than I am at accusing people. But I’d only want to defend kind people. You can tell if someone is kind by their aura. Plus, I’m smart. I know so many math facts. Ask me any math fact. Do you want a strategy for multiplying double digit numbers? If you want, I can teach you a strategy for multiplying double digit numbers.-Luis will be co-hosting the HONY Stories Book Launch tomorrow night at the Union Square Barnes and Noble. I don’t want to shoot off ALL our fireworks before the event, but Luis tells me there is a high probability that he will warm up the crowd with at least one knock-knock joke, as well as a particularly challenging brain teaser. There is also an 87.4 percent probability that Moochie The Guinea Pig will join us on stage. Luis also claims that he will ‘easily’ sign more books than me, but seeing that it’s a school night, I’m forced to question if he possesses the requisite endurance to back up such wild claims. We shall see. The event starts at 6PM, but capacity for the store is 1,000 people. So Barnes and Noble will be giving out wristbands beginning at 9 AM to anyone who purchases a book. Looking forward to seeing everyone who can make it.




Luis is different. He’s got two moms. He’s an old soul. We live in the projects, and he doesn’t know who Michael Jordan is, or anything about rap music. He dresses himself in the morning. He chooses a button down and slacks, and sits in the kitchen with his legs crossed and reads the newspaper. But he’s still got the heart of a child. Yesterday he had $5 to buy himself a Halloween costume, and he saw a boy he knew while he was walking to the store, and he chose to buy him a costume instead. I always tell him: ‘You’re different, Luis. And that’s OK.’ When he wants to play, I walk him all the way down to Central Park, because I don’t really want him to change.


He likes when I give him hugs."


I never imagined that I’d be happily married. My parents weren’t happily married. And not many of my parents’ friends were happily married. I’m sure they had been happy together at first. But it didn’t seem to last, so I assumed the same thing would happen to me. I just got lucky and fell in love with a genuinely nice man. He’s a great father. He sees the best in people. He’s not mean. I can’t really say that we were always happy, because happiness comes in spurts. Sometimes the stress of your career makes it hard to be a good partner. Or the disappointment you feel from not achieving personal goals. But there was never a time that I thought we were going to leave each other. And even today I still feel those spurts of happiness with him. Like when we laugh at something and I remember the times that we used to laugh a lot more together. Or when we find ourselves particularly engaged in a conversation, and I realize that after all these years, we’re still finding new things to talk about.




My mother was a school principal. A lot of times she worked until 8 pm, so my grandfather would always pick me up from elementary school and help me with my homework. He loved to help me with school because I was his first grandchild to get an education. He especially loved book reports. He always insisted that we decorate the cover of the report in case we needed an extra bump in our grade. If it was a Halloween book report, he’d make a witch out of toilet paper and straws. He always told me that it was his dream to see me finish college. But the day before I graduated high school, his hand started shaking and he dropped a bowl of cereal while we were eating breakfast. It turned out he had a major stroke. He was minimally responsive after that but we kept him on life support. We thought if we prayed hard enough and believed enough, he would recover. He held on for a few years. I ended up going to the Fashion Institute of Technology, and I’d stop in every once in awhile and tell him about my grades. Toward the end, he grew very sick and blind, and his body was rejecting food. I finally graduated from FIT, and I brought him my graduation photos. Even though he couldn’t see them, I described the graduation to him. He died that night.




I try to come out here in the mornings before work. I know what it’s like to be hungry and not have a voice. I grew up 50 years ago in the housing projects of London. We didn’t starve, but a lot of times we had nothing for dinner but beans, or maybe some ham on toast. So I went to bed hungry a lot. And when you’re a kid, you don’t really have a say in the matter. So I feed the animals because they can’t really tell you if they’re hungry. I’m not changing the fucking world. But it’s better than not doing it.


Before my bone marrow transplant, I had to have my immune system completely wiped out with chemotherapy.  I went into the hospital thinking that I was going to do a lot of reading and watch old movies and catch up on work.  One thing that I didn’t fully anticipate was the isolation that I’d feel.  I knew I’d be physically isolated.  The doctors and nurses wore masks so all I could see were their eyes.  And nobody touched me unless they were administering medicine.  But the pain and weakness brought me to a place where I felt completely alone.  I got so weak that I couldn’t even formulate a thought.  I dropped to 115 lbs.  The pain got so bad that I felt like I’d swallowed a blowtorch.  At one point I actually gave up.   I made everyone leave my room, even my partner, and I started slipping away.  I hallucinated my mother’s voice calling my name.   I heard it very distinctly.  But when I opened my eyes it was my nurse Jenny that was calling me.  At the point of my greatest isolation, it was almost as if my mother used Jenny’s voice to call me back.
We’re on the slow plan to get over her terrible beginnings.  She has a lot of PTSD.  She was born in a kill shelter so she spent the first four months of her life in a cage.  She’s terrified of the outside world.  When I first brought her home, she wouldn’t even leave her carrier for the first three days.  I had to buy a white noise box and insulate the whole apartment because she was so scared of noise.  It took us a whole year before I could get her to leave the apartment.  But now there are some mornings when she even asks to go outside.  She tends to change her mind once we get to the elevator, but I always give her time to regroup, and she’s happy when we finally get outside.  It’s so great to see her enjoy the outdoors.  The happiness may only stick for a few moments at a time, but it’s so great to see.
Not long ago it looked like I was about to get everything.  I was one of the first employees at a company that sold for a billion dollars.  So I started a new company, and everything seemed to be going perfectly, but suddenly everything came apart.  This has been the toughest year of my adult life.  I went bankrupt, my company failed, and the person I was in love with died.  I didn’t commit suicide—though I considered it.  But my ideas of myself have definitely died.  I thought I was better than everyone.  I saw my success as the culmination of all my positive merits.  Losing everything forced me to realize how much of my good fortune was due to things that had been given to me.


My friend and I played on the same team since we were seven years old. In middle school we won the state championship together. I had 37 points. The head coach for Penn State was there, and he pulled us both aside after the game and told us that he wanted us to come play for Penn State. But I lost focus in high school. I started hanging out with friends and partying. Soon I was missing practice and the coach wouldn’t put me in the game. I got frustrated and quit my junior year. But my friend was more determined. He was always the first one at practice and the last one to leave. He always did what the coach told him. Now he starts for Villanova. And I’m back out here. I haven’t given up though. Maybe I can play overseas.


The first ten seconds after meeting someone new is like a valley of death for me. I don’t know how to get through it. A lot of times I’ll have a plan of something to say, like: ‘You have nice socks.’ Or maybe something nice about their hair. But the plan never works because my mind goes blank and I freeze. If the person is more outgoing than me, a lot of times they will bail me out. But if we’re both shy, we just stare at each other until one of us leaves. Recently I had an idea that I could pretend like I’m an actor playing a role. Maybe it would be easier to talk to people if I imagined I was a guy named Bill. But that didn’t work. I wasn’t very good at being Bill either.


I work at a tech start-up.  We design sailing drones.  I was the tech guy but my cofounder quit and moved to Singapore.  So I just bought three suits at a Brooks Brothers outlet, and now I’m the CEO.


I was a maintenance man for fifteen years. But then my mother got cancer and she needed somebody with her all the time. I had to cook for her, clean her, help with her medicine everything. I ended up losing my job because I’d missed so many days of work. But by that time, I started to realize that I was really good at taking care of people. So now I’m studying to be a registered nurse.




HONY Stories comes out in less than one week! I’ve already said a lot about the merits of the book. So I want to take a quick opportunity to remind everyone that HONY is advertisement free and almost entirely financed by book sales. (The only exception being income from a handful of speeches I give every year.) Proceeds from books have been used to pay for trips to twenty different countries over the past year alone. Even when working with large organizations like the United Nations or UNHCR, I’m always very careful to cover all costs and reimburse any expenses. I do this so that the content on HONY can remain entirely independent, self-directed, and transparent. By purchasing a book, you can help HONY continue to grow in a way that remains focused on telling people’s stories and nothing else. Thanks to everyone for your continued support.HONY: Stories can be preordered now for 40% off:AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND:




Thanks to everyone for following along these last two weeks as we learned the stories of refugees migrating across Europe. I hope that you’ve learned along with me that each refugee carries a tragically unique story often filled with violence and fear. Many of you have asked about the best way to help. There are plenty of wonderful NGOs working to assist refugees, but you cannot go wrong supporting the . Money donated to the UNHCR goes directly to providing food, water, and shelter to desperate people. The UNHCR is on the ground all over the world, often in dangerous and difficult places, providing essentials to people who have no government or state to protect them. This is why the UNHCR has won two Nobel Peace Prizes. Currently the resources of the UNHCR are stretched to the limit, and sometimes the organization is only able to make a tissue thin difference. But often it is the difference between life and death.Quite wonderfully and coincidentally, Kickstarter launched a campaign this morning to support the UNHCR. It’s the very first charity campaign that Kickstarter has ever done. I encourage anyone wishing to make a difference in the refugee crisis to donate there:




I’m sixty-two years old. I was a government clerk in Baghdad. I heard from a neighbor that one of the militias was planning to kill me. The militia thought I was passing along information to the government. It wasn’t true, but these are not educated people. They don’t have rules. They don’t listen to reason. I had to leave or they would kill me. I couldn’t afford to bring my family with me. I didn’t even say goodbye. I snuck away in the middle of the night because I couldn’t stand to see my children cry. I’m all alone here. I look around, and I see everyone else with their families. I only have one cot. (Salzburg, Austria)




I lived in Mosul for five months under ISIS. I tried to avoid trouble but one of my neighbors reported me for shaving my beard. They came to my house while I was sleeping. My mother answered the door and they pushed her out of the way and dragged me out of bed. They asked me why I’d shaved my beard. I didn’t know what to tell them. They dragged me into the center of the city and made me kneel next to five other men. They called out on loudspeakers for everyone to come and watch. A large crowd gathered. The faces in the crowd seemed sad but they had no choice but to watch. ‘These men are atheists,’ they said. ‘And they will be punished.’ They took off my shirt and put a blindfold on me. They said that anyone who tried to go to the hospital afterward would be killed. I was the fifth one to be whipped. I could hear the men before me scream out in strange voices. When the first lash hit me, the pain was so bad that it felt like my soul left my body. They lashed me twelve times. I lost consciousness before it ended and woke up in bed. (Salzburg, Austria)


They told me to meet them at a certain address with the money.  It was an old abandoned house.  They told me to wait for a silver car to come, and to throw the money inside.  After a few minutes a car came.  I threw the money inside and it drove off.  Soon another car pulled up, the door opened, and my son was thrown out.  I didn’t believe it was my son.  It was like I was born again.  I picked him up and I started running and I didn’t stop until I reached a place full of people.  Both of us cried as I ran.  (Hegyeshalom, Hungary)

(3/3)


After they took our son, my wife was so weak that she couldn’t get out of bed. For days I walked around Baghdad like a crazy man. I could not sleep. I walked from early in the morning to late at night. I thought maybe I’d recognize the car if I saw it again. Every day I picked a new neighborhood. I kept my phone in my hand hoping that someone would call. Every few seconds I’d check the screen. Soon I lost hope. I was sure that I’d lost my son. Then after one week an envelope came to the house with a phone number inside. I called the number and a man told me that he had my son. He said he wanted a large amount of money. He said if I called the police, my son would die. It took me twenty days to get the money together. I sold the house. I borrowed money from relatives. Days would pass between phone calls. I kept begging for more time. They kept changing SIM cards so I couldn’t call back. When I finally got the money, I told them I was ready to meet, but I demanded to speak to my son. I told them: ‘Please, I need to hear his voice. I need to hear his voice.’ Then suddenly I heard my son’s voice on the phone. He sounded very scared. He said: ‘Dad?’ Then the phone was disconnected. (Hegyeshalom, Hungary)(2/3)




Every month we had to go to Baghdad to get my son’s eyes treated. When we went for his last appointment, the hospital was very crowded so we decided to go back to the hotel and wait. We walked out into the street and waited for a taxi. A car pulled up and stopped. We thought it was the police. Two men with guns jumped out and asked for our ID cards, then they pushed us into the car. After a few hundred meters, my wife and I were tossed into the street. But they kept my son. (Hegyeshalom, Hungary) (1/3)




I studied to be a teacher, but I’m young, so I knew I’d be forced to fight. I don’t like fighting. I don’t like blood. But I was the only one working so I couldn’t leave or my family would go hungry. But my mother begged me to leave. She kissed my feet. She said she wouldn’t mind starving if she knew that I was safe. I hired a smuggler but he took all my money and left me at the border. He told me that he’d call me when the passage was safe, but then he turned off his phone. I was all alone and stuck without money. I called my mother and she said that she’d pray for God to send someone to help me. Then I met this man. I told him my story and he loaned me the money I needed to get to Europe. He treated me like one of his family. I'll pay him back when I get to Germany, but until then I'm trying to return the favor by helping him carry his children. (Vienna, Austria)




My father loved children. But I was his favorite because I was the small one. Whenever we did something wrong, everyone else got punished except for me. When I was fifteen, he took us on a shopping trip to Baghdad, and he told us to wait in the car while he ran into a market. We heard a loud explosion. We got out of the car and ran toward the sound. Body parts were everywhere. My father’s body was lying on the ground with his head split open. Part of his brain was on the street. I was young and naïve. I remember thinking: ‘It will be OK. He just needs an operation.’ (Vienna, Austria)


The army searched our house six times.  The first two times they knocked on the door.  The next four times they kicked in the door in the middle of the night.  They hit my wife.  They shocked me with an electric baton.  And my children had to witness all of this.  The psychology of my children changed before my eyes.  I stopped getting hugs and kisses.  They used to watch cartoons and play normal games.  Now they only played games related to war.  They’d chase each other around the house, shouting: ‘I’m going to kill you!’  I tried buying them an educational kit with cardboard squares and triangles and circles.  When I left the room, they broke the shapes and turned them into guns.  (Hegyeshalom, Hungary)
I work at the UNHCR, but I have a quite junior position.  I have a desk job where I reach out to job candidates and try to get them to consider UNHCR.  But whenever there’s an emergency, anyone who has a useful skill is sent to the field.  This is my first emergency mission.  My father is Iranian so I speak a little bit of Farsi.  I didn’t realize how useful that could be.  Yesterday I was helping an Afghan woman carry her child across the Serbian border, and I was explaining to her what she could expect when we arrived.  She was so comforted by the little information I could offer.  I’ve seen so many faces light up just because they heard Welcome To Croatia in their mother tongue.  I'm thankful for my desk job, but this is why I joined the UNHCR.  (Tovarnik, Croatia)
I used to work as civil engineer in Nepal.  I worked on government projects: bridges, roads, things like that.  But I was sitting in my office one day in 2004, watching television coverage of the tsunami that hit Indonesia, and I realized that government work was not the best use of my abilities.  So I joined the UN and helped build 380 schools in Indonesia.  Then when the earthquake hit Haiti, I moved there and began building shelters.  Any engineer could do this work.  But there just weren’t many available.  So all I did was make myself available.  Now I’m working with the UNHCR to construct camps for refugees.  The first priorities are basics: shelter, health, food, water, and toilet access.  My next priority is to respect the dignity of the refugees.  When they arrive, they are very anxious, so I want to make sure they feel like they have a place.  We leave four meters of space between every tent.  We also leave the camp open so they can enter and leave whenever they like.  And I added this cover over the entry way, because I wanted to be sure they were shaded the moment they walk in.  (Lesvos, Greece)
I saw the army burn my neighbor’s house.  They set it on fire and took photographs while it burned.  The next day I saw the same house on TV, except the headline claimed that it had been destroyed by ‘terrorists.’  The army began to arrest 300 people every day.  They were arresting everyone.  They came for me during Ramadan.  I was eating with my entire family when suddenly we heard the sound of a car outside.  Soldiers kicked down the door and they tied my hands behind my back.  My children were screaming.  The soldiers said: ‘We know you are working with the opposition!  You are a terrorist!’  I told them: ‘Please.  We are poor people.  We have done nothing.  We are trying to live.’  I never thought I’d see my family again.  They brought me to the prison and blindfolded me.  They made me kneel on the floor.  They asked me questions about the opposition, but I knew nothing.  When they asked me a question, I only had two seconds to answer before I was kicked.  They beat me for hours while they questioned me.  I begged them to stop.  I kept promising that I would tell them if I heard anything.  Then they attached cables to my body.  They would run electricity through me for 25 seconds, then they would stop, and they would ask another question.  When I said: ‘I don’t know,’ the electricity would start again. They kept me for three days.  When they finally let me go, I couldn’t stand.  I went home and hugged my family but I had to go straight to work.  Because there was no food in the house and no one had eaten for days.  (Lesvos, Greece)


I worked as a waiter in Saudi Arabia for seven years to save money so that I could build a house in Syria. It only had two rooms and a bathroom, but for me it was paradise. We lived there for about twenty years. We did not want to leave. We have young children and no money to travel. But it became impossible to live. Our house was situated between the army and the opposition. Every day the army knocked on our door, and said: ‘Help us or we will kill you.’ They came to the restaurant where I worked and accused us of feeding the enemy. We hid in the cellar while they beat the manager. If the opposition managed to capture our village, we would also be killed. They would accuse us of collaborating with the army. We had no options. Minding our own business was not a choice. We left with nothing but our clothes. (Lesvos, Greece)


When I joined the Syrian army, there was no war yet.  I just wanted to serve my country.  But now everyone is forced to do horrible things.  One time we were marching and a single bullet came from a village.  Our commander told us to go into each house, one by one, and kill everyone inside.  The village was a Sunni village, so our commander ordered all the Sunni soldiers to lead the attack.  Anyone who disobeyed would be killed themselves.  We did our best to aim over the heads of the people who were running away, but forty people were killed.  A few nights later I fled in the middle of the night.  (Lesvos, Greece)


I’m working as an interpreter. I know what these people are going through. My family fled Afghanistan because the Taliban wanted to kill my father. I arrived in Greece fifteen years ago. We came across a river from Turkey. We tried to walk at night but we knew that we’d been caught because we kept seeing red lasers pointed at us. We saw the glow of night vision goggles through the trees. But nobody approached us, so we thought that maybe we had been mistaken, and we kept walking. Eventually we came upon a car along the road that had driven into a ditch. The lights were on and the doors were open. We thought somebody might be hurt inside, so everyone ran toward the car. But it was a trap. The police came swarming out of the trees. I’d been told many times that they’d beat us when they found us. But it was even worse than I imagined. They treated us like animals. They wore masks and gloves because they were afraid to even touch us. It was like we weren’t human. (Kos, Greece)




This is the man who inspired us to begin helping refugees. We met Father Stratis back in 2008, when refugees began arriving on the island from Afghanistan. We ran a minimarket at the time, and every day this priest would come in to buy juice, croissants, and other supplies to hand out. Eventually we began to follow his lead, and soon we were working side by side. I always joke that God punished me for my atheism by sending a priest to be my best friend. He was always pushing us to do more. The phone never left his hand. He was always looking for new ways to help. He died last month, but even in his final days, he was searching for diapers from his hospital bed. His final post on Facebook said: ‘God is love, without asterisks.’ (Lesvos, Greece)(2/2)




In the past four months alone, we’ve had twelve thousand refugees stop here. We know because we’ve counted the sandwiches that we’ve handed out. They show up battered and beaten. We set up this rest area along the road to hand out sandwiches, juice, and water. One night we had one thousand people here. You could see nothing but heads. We’re not professionals, just volunteers. The families break our heart the most. They show up with no money, no papers, and no hotels. Sometimes it’s raining and they have nothing but cardboard over their heads. They have nothing for their children, and we know how hard it is to raise kids even in standard conditions. Our son hasn’t seen very much of us recently. Even when we are together, the phone is always ringing and we are absent in mind. Recently he asked if we could build a big boat and send the refugees somewhere that there is no war. (Lesvos, Greece)




A friend called me at work and told me that a sniper had shot my youngest brother. I rushed to the clinic and he was lying there with a bandage on his head. I unwrapped the bandage to help treat the wound with alcohol, and small pieces of brain were stuck to it. The doctor told me: ‘Unless you get him to Damascus, he will die.’ I panicked. The road to Damascus went straight through Raqqa and was very dangerous. It took ten hours, because we could only take back roads and we had to drive very far out of the way. My brother was in the back seat, and after a very short time he started to vomit bile. Water was pouring from his eyes. I didn’t know what to do. I was so scared. I thought for sure he was dying. But somehow I got him to the hospital. He’s paralyzed now and his speech is slow. His memory is OK. He can remember old things. He needs an operation in his eye. We used to do everything together, and now he can’t do anything. He can only move his hand. I’m trying to get him to Germany because I hear that maybe the doctors there can help him. (Lesvos, Greece)




The extent to which refugee children have been conditioned by their environment is heartbreaking. We wanted permission to take this young girl’s photograph, so we asked if her mother was nearby. Her eyes filled with the most uncontrollable fear that I’ve ever seen in a child. ‘Why do you want my mother?’ she asked. Later, her parents told us how the family had crouched in the woods while soldiers ransacked their house in Syria. More recently they’d been chased through the woods by Turkish police. After we’d spent a few minutes talking with her parents, she returned to being a child and could not stop hugging us, and laughing, and saying ‘I love you so much.’ But I went to sleep that night remembering the terror on her face when we first asked to speak to her mother. (Lesvos, Greece)


ISIS looks for any reason to punish you. If they saw me with my face shaved, they’d punish me. If they saw me with these jeans, they’d punish me. Two of them walked into my electronics shop, and they asked me why my beard was so short. I tried to make an excuse about having just returned from vacation, but they said: ‘Come with us.’ I begged them to forgive me, but they took me to the judge and I was sentenced to three days of digging tunnels at the airport. They told me that they’d come get me when it was time. When they came to my house, I was hiding, so they took my neighbors instead. Everyone they took that day was killed by American planes. (Lesvos, Greece)




My father was a farmer and we had eight siblings. I went to Australia when I was fifteen because my family didn’t have enough to eat. I was on a boat for forty days. When I got there, I couldn’t find a job, I couldn’t speak English, and I had to sleep on the street. I know what it’s like. So everyday I drive the van to the port and hand out bread to the refugees. My son is my business partner. He says, ‘Baba, please. It’s fine to help. But not every day.’ But I still go every day because I know what it feels like to have nothing. (Kos, Greece)




Everyone here has been very nice to us. When we got to the beach, there were people there who gave us food and a hug. A priest even gave us this carpet to pray on. He told us: ‘We have the same God.’ (Lesvos, Greece)(2/2)




There is no security in Baghdad. We lived in constant fear. We started receiving text messages one day. They said: ‘Give us money, or we will burn down your house. If you tell the police, we will kill you.’ We had nobody to turn to. We are poor people. We have no powerful friends. We don’t know anyone in the government. The text messages continued every day. We were so afraid that we could not sleep. We had no money to give them. We could barely afford to feed ourselves. So we said to ourselves: ‘Maybe they are lying. Maybe they will do nothing.’ Then one night we woke up and our house was on fire. We barely escaped with the children. The next day we received a text message. It said: ‘Give us money, or this time you will die.’ I replied that we’d pay them soon. We sold everything we owned, and we left. We thought we'd rather die in a plastic boat than die there. (Lesvos, Greece)




I wish I could have done more for her. Her life has been nothing but struggle. She hasn’t known many happy moments. She never had a chance to taste childhood. When we were getting on the plastic boat, I heard her say something that broke my heart. She saw her mother being crushed by the crowd, and she screamed: "Please don't kill my mother! Kill me instead!' (Lesvos, Greece)




My husband and I sold everything we had to afford the journey. We worked 15 hours a day in Turkey until we had enough money to leave. The smuggler put 152 of us on a boat. Once we saw the boat, many of us wanted to go back, but he told us that anyone who turned back would not get a refund. We had no choice. Both the lower compartment and the deck were filled with people. Waves began to come into the boat so the captain told everyone to throw their baggage into the sea. In the ocean we hit a rock, but the captain told us not to worry. Water began to come into the boat, but again he told us not to worry. We were in the lower compartment and it began to fill with water. It was too tight to move. Everyone began to scream. We were the last ones to get out alive. My husband pulled me out of the window. In the ocean, he took off his life jacket and gave it to a woman. We swam for as long as possible. After several hours he told me he that he was too tired to swim and that he was going to float on his back and rest. It was so dark we could not see. The waves were high. I could hear him calling me but he got further and further away. Eventually a boat found me. They never found my husband. (Kos, Greece)




For context on the upcoming stories, it is important to understand the ‘plastic boat.’ The plastic boat is a central figure in the story of almost every refugee coming to Europe via Turkey. Every day, thousands of people arrive to the Greek islands on these boats. They represent one of the only ways that refugees can bypass immigration restrictions and throw themselves at the feet of Europe. The journey is extremely dangerous and many have drowned in the past few months. Despite paying Turkish smugglers $1500 per person, the refugees are loaded into boats that are filled to many times their capacity. The boats usually leave at night to avoid detection. Often the refugees arrive carrying nothing but horror stories. Unfortunately there is little waiting for them on the other side. If they are lucky, a handful of volunteers will meet them on the beach with a bottle of water. In Lesvos, where this photo was taken, the refugees will then begin a 50-mile walk to the port where they can register. The and several NGOs are scrambling to provide bare necessities, but their resources are stretched to capacity. They can offer little beyond a guarantee of survival. The initial elation of the refugees at having reached Europe will quickly subside as many realize they cannot even afford the price of a ferry to get off the island.


After one month, I arrived in Austria.  The first day I was there, I walked into a bakery and met a man named Fritz Hummel.  He told me that forty years ago he had visited Syria and he’d been treated well.  So he gave me clothes, food, everything.  He became like a father to me.  He took me to the Rotary Club and introduced me to the entire group.  He told them my story and asked: ‘How can we help him?’  I found a church, and they gave me a place to live.  Right away I committed myself to learning the language.  I practiced German for 17 hours a day.  I read children's stories all day long.  I watched television.  I tried to meet as many Austrians as possible.  After seven months, it was time to meet with a judge to determine my status.  I could speak so well at this point, that I asked the judge if we could conduct the interview in German.  He couldn't believe it.  He was so impressed that I’d already learned German, that he interviewed me for only ten minutes.  Then he pointed at my Syrian ID card and said: ‘Muhammad, you will never need this again.  You are now an Austrian!’ (Kos, Greece)

(6/6)
The island we landed on was called Samothrace.  We were so thankful to be there.  We thought we’d reached safety.  We began to walk toward the police station to register as refugees.  We even asked a man on the side of the road to call the police for us.  I told the other refugees to let me speak for them, since I spoke English.  Suddenly two police jeeps came speeding toward us and slammed on the brakes.  They acted like we were murderers and they’d been searching for us.  They pointed guns at us and screamed: ‘Hands up!’  I told them: ‘Please, we just escaped the war, we are not criminals!’  They said: ‘Shut up, Malaka!’  I will never forget this word:  ‘Malaka, Malaka, Malaka.’  It was all they called us.  They threw us into prison.  Our clothes were wet and we could not stop shivering.  We could not sleep.  I can still feel this cold in my bones.  For three days we had no food or water.  I told the police: ‘We don’t need food, but please give us water.’  I begged the commander to let us drink.  Again, he said: ‘Shut up, Malaka!’  I will remember this man’s face for the rest of my life.  He had a gap in his teeth so he spit on us when he spoke.  He chose to watch seven people suffer from thirst for three days while they begged him for water.  We were saved when they finally they put us on a boat and sent us to a camp on the mainland.  For twelve days we stayed there before walking north.  We walked for three weeks.  I ate nothing but leaves.  Like an animal.  We drank from dirty rivers.  My legs grew so swollen that I had to take off my shoes.  When we reached the border, an Albanian policeman found us and asked if we were refugees.  When we told him ‘yes,’ he said that he would help us.  He told us to hide in the woods until nightfall.  I did not trust this man, but I was too tired to run.  When night came, he loaded us all into his car.  Then he drove us to his house and let us stay there for one week.  He bought us new clothes.  He fed us every night.  He told me: ‘Do not be ashamed.  I have also lived through a war.  You are now my family and this is your house too.’  (Kos, Greece)

(5/6)


After I told my father that I’d made it to Europe, I wanted nothing more than to turn that lie into the truth. I found a smuggler and told him my story. He acted like he cared very much and wanted to help me. He told me that for 1000 Euros, he could get me to a Greek Island. He said: ‘I’m not like the other smugglers. I fear God. I have children of my own. Nothing bad will happen to you.’ I trusted this man. One night he called me and told me to meet him at a garage. He put me in the back of a van with twenty other people. There were tanks of gasoline back there, and we couldn’t breath. People started to scream and vomit. The smuggler pulled out a gun, pointed it at us, and said: ‘If you don’t shut up, I will kill you.’ He took us to a beach, and while he prepared the boat, his partner kept the gun pointed at us. The boat was made of plastic and was only three meters long. When we got on it, everyone panicked and the boat started to sink. Thirteen of the people were too scared to go. But the smuggler said that if we changed our minds, he would keep the money, so seven of us decided to go ahead. The smuggler told us that he would guide us to the island, but after a few hundred meters, he jumped off the boat and swam to shore. He told us to keep going straight. The waves got higher and higher and water began to come in the boat. It was completely black. We could see no land, no lights, only ocean. Then after thirty minutes the motor stopped. I knew we all would die. I was so scared that my thoughts completely stopped. The women started crying because none of them could swim. I lied and told them that I could swim with three people on my back. It started to rain. The boat began to turn in circles. Everyone was so frightened that nobody could speak. But one man kept trying to work on the motor, and after a few minutes it started again. I don’t remember how we reached shore. But I remember I kissed all the earth I could find. I hate the sea now. I hate it so much. I don’t like to swim it. I don’t like to look at it. I hate everything about it. (Kos, Greece)(4/6)


For two weeks my tears didn’t stop.  Nothing made sense.  Why did these things happen to my family?  We did everything right.  Everything.  We were very honest with everyone.  We treated our neighbors well.  We made no big mistakes.  I was under so much pressure at this time.  My father was in intensive care, and every day my sisters called and told me that ISIS was getting closer to our village.  I went completely crazy.  I fainted in the street one day and woke up in the hospital.  I gave the rest of my money to a smuggler to help my sisters escape to Iraq.  Now I only had 1000 Euro left and I was stranded in Turkey.  My father recovered from his operation at this time.  He called me and asked how I’d paid for his surgery.  I told him that the money came from a friend.  He asked if I had made it to Europe.  For the first time ever, I lied to my father.  I didn’t want him to feel guilty about his surgery.  I told him that I was in Europe, and I was safe, and there was nothing to worry about.  (Kos, Greece)

(3/6)
Before leaving for Europe, I went back to Syria to see my family once more.  I slept in my uncle’s barn the entire time I was there, because every day the police were knocking on my father’s door.  Eventually my father told me: ‘If you stay any longer, they will find you and they will kill you.’  So I contacted a smuggler and made my way to Istanbul.  I was just about to leave for Europe when I received a call from my sister.  She told me that my father had been very badly beaten by police, and unless I sent 5,000 Euro for an operation, he would die.  That was my money to get to Europe.  But what could I do?  I had no choice.  Then two weeks later she called with even worse news.  My brother had been killed by ISIS while he was working in an oil field.  They found our address on his ID card, and they sent his head to our house, with a message: ‘Kurdish people aren’t Muslims.’  My youngest sister found my brother’s head.  This was one year ago.  She has not spoken a single word since. (Kos, Greece)

(2/6)
I want to begin this refugee series with a post from the summer of 2014.  This is Muhammad, who I first met last year in Iraqi Kurdistan.  At the time, he had just fled the war in Syria and was working as a clerk at my hotel.  When war broke out, he’d been studying English Literature at the University of Damascus, so his English was nearly perfect.  He agreed to work as my interpreter and we spent several days interviewing refugees who were fleeing the advance of ISIS.   As is evident from the quote below, I left Muhammad with the expectation that he’d soon be travelling to the United Kingdom with fake papers.  I am retelling the story because I have just now reconnected with Muhammad.  He will be working again as my interpreter for the next ten days.  But the story he told me of what happened since we last met is tragic.  (1/6  The fighting got very bad. When I left Syria to come here, I only had $50. I was almost out of money when I got here. I met a man on the street, who took me home, and gave me food and a place to stay. But I felt so ashamed to be in his home that I spent 11 hours a day looking for jobs, and only came back to sleep. I finally found a job at a hotel. They worked me 12 hours a day, for 7 days a week. They gave me $400 a month. Now I found a new hotel now that is much better. I work 12 hours per day for $600 a month, and I get one day off. In all my free hours, I work at a school as an English teacher. I work 18 hours per day, every day. And I have not spent any of it. I have not bought even a single T-shirt. I've saved 13,000 Euro, which is how much I need to buy fake papers. There is a man I know who can get me to Europe for 13,000. I'm leaving next week. I'm going once more to Syria to say goodbye to my family, then I'm going to leave all this behind. I'm going to try to forget it all. And I'm going to finish my education.
(August 2014 : Erbil, Iraq)


My wife died about ten years ago. We were anthropologists and did a lot of work in the field together. I recently brought out some of our old notebooks and went through them. They were from forty years ago. In one of them I found very detailed field notes from fourteen months we spent living together in an Indian village. Those notes stirred up a lot of memories. I don’t think I’ll go through our old notebooks again.




Two days ago at school we learned how to play a game called chest. You have horses and pawns and bishops and castles, and you’re supposed to steal other peoples’ places by squirting your pawn diagonal and eating their pieces. If anyone else wants to learn chest, I’ll teach them.




I've been walking dogs for 14 years now. Im the Pied Piper of dogs. I can walk five dogs in one hand, and five dogs in the other hand, and I can tell you which one needs to poop."




I was a maître d’ at a restaurant for thirteen years. But one week I got a really bad case of pneumonia that put me in the hospital. While I was lying in that hospital bed, I was thinking about how I really didn’t want to go back to work. Then that motivational speaker came on TV. You know the one that has all those teeth in his mouth. And he said: ‘Think back to what made you happy when you were young! That’s what you should be doing!’ Well I grew up in the country, and I always had a lot of dogs, so I thought that nothing would make me happier than to be a dog walker. But I knew I needed to distinguish myself. So I decided to make a uniform. I smoked a joint and came up with this outfit. I wanted people to look at me and think: ‘If this man is walking our dog, and there’s some sort of major disaster, he’s going to survive. He’s going to fish for those dogs. He’s going to build a bunker and shelter those dogs until it’s safe to bring them home.’ After I finished the design, I got four of my friends to wear the uniform, and we borrowed all the neighbors’ dogs, and we walked them down 5th avenue while handing out business cards. I got five customers that first day. 


I don't think my intelligence comes across very well because I tend to get overexcited about things, like a little dog. Nobody at school notices when you're reading Jane Austen. But everyone tends to notice when you get really excited about lunchtime."




I’m new to this city and I’m trying to get myself out there. I’m pretty sure I saw James Franco yesterday, which was awesome. But other than that it’s been kinda lonely. I wish more people would notice me. I’m just filled up with stories: fascinating stories, sad stories, happy stories, love stories. I know I have so much to offer but sometimes I wonder if people even see me. I sit here on this bench and they just scroll right by. Maybe they’re judging me by my cover. I’ve got to get more creative. Oh well, I’ll figure something out. -THREE WEEKS until HONY Stories (October 13th)Preorder now for 34% OffAMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND:




We're going to the African Festival!" What's the African Festival?" It's where Mom lets me eat my snack."




My dad doesn't express his emotions, and my mom doesn't know how to use the iPad. So when we Skype, I have to look at my dad's face while talking to my mom. It's bizarre."




I'm twenty-four, and I'm already on my third fresh start."




When you’re a teacher, you get to look down on your students’ lives from 5,000 feet. You’re allowed a certain detachment because your primary job is to encourage and inspire. You can easily tolerate your students making mistakes, or lacking direction, because you realize that kids learn through the tension of uncertainty. But when it’s your own kids, you don’t have that the benefit of that detachment. You’re in the trenches because you’re the one in charge of keeping them safe. My son is impulsive, and he just got a Great Dane mix even though he’s staying in a tiny college apartment. If I were his teacher, I could laugh at that and say: ‘It’s OK, you’re just being you!’ But as his parent, there’s a lot of pressure to say: ‘Stop being you. And do this.’




I hate pot. I hate it even more than hard drugs. I’ve taught high school for 25 years and I hate what marijuana does to my students. It goes beyond missing homework assignments. My students become less curious when they start smoking pot. I’ve seen it time and time again. People say pot makes you more creative, but from what I’ve seen, it narrows my students' minds until they only reference the world in relation to the drug. They’ll say things like: I went to the beach and got so high, or I went to a concert and got so high. They start choosing their friends based on the drug. I hate when people say that it’s just experimenting. Because from what I’ve seen, it’s when my students stop experimenting.


I’ve dated white people.  I’ve got white friends.  But I firmly believe that there’s not a Caucasian man in this world who does not think he’s more intelligent than a man with darker skin.  He’ll deny it.  But when he’s crushed down one thousand times, and when he absolutely needs it, he will play that card to save his self-esteem vis-à-vis me.  I’m not saying it’s a choice.  It’s not a moral thing.  I’m saying it’s a feature of his soul that he doesn’t know is there.
I got evicted from my apartment in the summer of 2011.  I was working on commission as a real estate broker, and I hadn’t made a deal in a long time.  I had master keys to a bunch of vacant apartments, so I slept in those for a while.  But that came to an end when two prospective tenants walked in on me buck-naked at a unit in Harlem.  I got out of the shower, and the superintendent was standing there with two African guys.  Luckily they didn’t report me.  After that I tried sleeping in the office.  That worked for a couple years.  My colleagues saw me so much that they joked about me sleeping there.  They had no idea it was true.  But they fired me for good in 2013 and deactivated my entry card.  That’s when I started sleeping outside.  I bought a gym membership so at least I’d have a place to shower.  Last winter was the worst.  The cold would get through the sleeping bag and I’d wake up feeling like somebody had hit my hands with a hammer.  All night I’d pray for 6 AM because that’s when my gym would open.


I turned my wife into a meme."




I got married a few months ago. I mean, she's my everything and all. But I'm just trying to get used to having someone else's opinion around all the time. She doesn't like my beard so she's making me shave it. Today. At 6:40 PM."




I accidentally threw away a receipt."


I’m a graphic designer, and I’m trying to be more assertive at work. My bosses tell me that I need to use my voice more. Whenever my work gets criticized, I have a tendency to say: ‘You’re right.’ Or ‘I agree.’ I don’t really stand up for my own decisions, even though I had good reasons for making them. Whenever I’m around my friends, I can be sarcastic and obnoxious and say things without thinking about them. But for some reason that confidence doesn't transfer to the workplace. It’s especially frustrating because I know that there’s this stereotype of quiet, agreeable Asian females. And I feel like I’m fulfilling it.


We're trying to break into this fashion world. There's a lot of bitch faces in this industry. Most of the time, the person is just shy and the bitch face is not real. But sometimes it's real. Sometimes it's really real."




I used to self-harm. He was literally the first person who ever sat me down and told me that I didn't deserve to be in pain all the time."




I'm at the beginning of my transition right now. I had nine procedures recently. My best friend is worried about me. She's afraid that I'm boxing myself in, and that people are only going to see me as this."




I just want to be a reality show. I think it’s close to happening. I just need to start a business or something. It’s really not that hard. The producers tell you what to do: choose some people not to like, make negative comments, get mad at everything, throw things…




It's our fourth day of school. They've done everything together up until this point. So I made sure they were put in different classrooms."




My mom found out I was skipping school. When I came home, she told me that she'd bought something for me and put it in my room. When I went in my room, everything was gone. My TV was gone. My cable was gone. My systems were gone. My LeBrons were gone. My Jordans were gone. My Kobes were gone. All she left me was a pair of Reeboks.




I’m a rare book librarian. I get to touch books every single day. My colleague and I have a joke that we are Defenders of Wonder. A physical book assigns a sense of reverence to the content inside. It’s the same feeling you get when you look at a painting or hear a piece of music. And I think that’s something worth defending. And just like a book gives reverence to it’s content, I think the library gives reverence to books. The building itself is a masterpiece. So many famous thinkers have come here to study and write. Just being here connects you to that lineage.




I don't have anything personally against homeless people. But I try to avoid getting into conversations with them. Because I may be walking later with one of my influential friends, and the homeless person may come up to me and start acting like we're friends. And how's that going to look? You've got to choose who you're seen with. It's a matter of optics."




Our first date was going pretty well. I’d never been on a date before, so I was pretty proud of myself. I was finding perfect little moments to reference our previous text messages. I put my arm around her during the movie. Well, my arm wasn’t exactly touching her, but I draped it across her seat, which actually really hurt my shoulder. Everything seemed to be going perfectly. But then after the movie we were crossing the street and I actually got hit by a car. I fell on the ground and all the stuff flew out of my backpack. It was really embarrassing. My leg was killing me for the rest of the date and I had to pretend like it didn’t hurt.




I first met her in church last October. I wanted to talk to her for months but I was too nervous. I’d never gone on a date or had a girlfriend before. All my friends kept helping me think of strategies to ask her out. But I kept saying that I’d do it later. I kept saying that I was too busy with college applications to have a girlfriend. But really I was just too scared. After my applications were finished, I ran out of excuses. So I asked her to sit next to me in church. When the service was over, I walked her to the door and asked her out. My friends were all watching and they snapped this picture. I was crossing my arms because I was so nervous. I’d never had a conversation with a girl for that long.




I've been hyper-cautious my whole life. I've never done a controlled substance. I had extremely limited participation in the sexual revolution. And there's a thousand people that I should have told off but never did. And with all that caution, my life didn't even turn out all that well. At least I can say I never got an STD."




This is my frog. It's a girl frog and her name is Colt. She likes hopping and going on the wrong side of the bed. Every time I wake up she's always on the wrong side of the bed. She hops over there when I'm sleeping because she knows she's not allowed and that makes her curious."


It was so hard to get out from under his shadow.  He was so known in the community that I couldn’t do anything without people saying: ‘That’s Sharif’s son.’  I couldn’t try and fail and be a fuck up, because it was always his name that I was representing.  He lived life on his terms.  That’s who he was.  The allure of being a public figure was always greater than the allure of being a present father.  I remember him leaving the house at 6 AM and coming back at 3 AM.  There were a lot of times when I looked into the stands at a track meet or a football game, and there was nobody there.  Only when I was old enough to join his fight did I finally start spending time with him.  If he was organizing a protest against the Board of Education, my brothers and I were the ones setting up the tent cities.  He once told me: ‘I’d love for you to love me.  But as long as you grow into a man who provides for his family and cares about his community, I don’t need you to love me.’  It took me a long time to stop resenting him for not providing the things that I wanted.  But eventually I had to accept I couldn’t choose who he was.  But I could choose to love him.  (3/3)


He was a public figure. He was the chief aide to Newark’s first black mayor, and president of the Board of Education. I remember being sixteen or seventeen, and attending a speech that he was giving, and the whole crowd went silent the moment he stepped up to the podium. And I remember thinking: ‘How does somebody do that?’ That’s how big of a person he was. And seeing him get so frail really flipped me out. Two days ago I walked into his hospital room and he was unresponsive. They had him hooked up to IVs and they were draining blood from his stomach into a jar. I had to leave the room, and I couldn’t go back for several hours. (2/3)




It’s looking like my dad isn’t going to make it. So I’m sitting here trying to figure out what life is going to be like without him. He was my North Star. Everything I know about being a man was because of him. This morning I went on a long run, and I began to feel tired. Suddenly I remember being thirteen years old, jogging alongside my father, and having him say to me: ‘As long as you can take one more step, take it.’ (1/3)




The first time I tried to kill myself was when I was twelve years old. It just didn’t feel like I had a space in the world. It seemed like everyone hated me. When I got my first period, the other students found my pads in my backpack and threw them around the school. Another time everyone got together and threw rocks at me. When I’d get home, I’d go straight to my room to avoid my father. I moved to New York when I turned eighteen because I felt like I needed a drastic change. And the move has given me much more confidence in myself. But I still feel very alone. Loneliness has become such a big part of me that I always migrate towards it. It’s like a person who’s always sitting next to me. And I’ve learned to like it. (2/2)




My father moved back in with us when I was nine. He was an alcoholic. And he was a very big man. I remember being too intimidated to look past his neck. The first couple of weeks he was very nice. Every night he would put me to bed and tell me a story of a hopping bunny. Those are my happiest memories, but he got bored with that pretty quickly. When I was sixteen, he punched me in the face so hard that he shattered my front teeth.




I’d always been an overachiever. I graduated at the top of my class in high school. I got straight A’s. I got accepted into 14 of the 17 colleges that I applied to. But when I got to Harvard, everyone around me was just as smart or smarter. My grades fell, and suddenly I was no longer exceeding expectations. All that external validation that I’d become accustomed to suddenly stopped. And I crumbled. I felt lost. I learned that I hadn’t formed an identity beyond making people proud of me. So I left school for a while and took a hard look at my life. I learned to cope with failure. I learned that it was OK to rely on other people and ask for help. Eventually I went back and graduated. I’m still not exactly sure who I am. But I’m working on it.




I don’t remember deciding that I didn’t want kids. I just always knew. I expected to have a solitary and philosophical life. It had nothing to do with the noise or the responsibility or the diapers, I just didn’t feel qualified. I couldn’t figure out my own life. How was I supposed to be responsible for someone else’s happiness and sense of self-worth? I pictured fatherhood as a quiet living room where everyone was unhappy and nobody knew why. But I was wrong. They made me so much happier, and it was so much easier than I thought. I didn’t realize how much of being a father is just about doing things together and being where they are.




Choosing what I want to do with my life is like trying to watch a YouTube video. When I'm halfway through the video, I glance over at the sidebar and see they're recommending something else that seems more interesting."




I'm twenty-four, but I look like I'm twelve. So I'm hoping I'll age like Clooney."




We lived in Idaho, but our dairy farm went broke when the government dropped the price support for milk. Then I saw an ad in the paper looking for someone to build a library for Alaska’s first Eskimo college. I needed a job, and I’d studied library science in college, so we packed up all our kids and moved to Alaska. We stayed for 17 years, and I started libraries in about a dozen Eskimo villages. We lived for a few years in Barrow, which is the northernmost city in the United States. It was completely dark for several months a year. The temperature would fall below zero in October, and wouldn’t get back above zero until May. We’ve had an interesting life for a couple of farm kids.




I’m under a lot of pressure to create a new currency where people can profit from helping other people. This has been prophesied over and over again. I need to work harder because I feel like I know the future and I’m the one who has to drive this train.




I was born in a small town in North Carolina, but my family moved north when we were young. After I graduated from college, I went back for a visit. I thought it would be fun to make a bit of a triumphant return to my hometown. I was driving a new car and had a City College sweatshirt, so I was feeling pretty good about myself. As soon as we arrived, we got out of the car to walk around a bit. We were acting a bit too self-assured. My brother started taking photos of signs that said ‘Negro Entrance.’ We were gone for a couple hours. When we got back, a young white teenage mechanic was shouting at us from across the street. ‘Don’t get in your car!’ he screamed. ‘Don’t get in your car!’ He brought his truck over and towed us back to his garage. He explained that he’d seen the police disconnect our muffler so they could pull us over and take us to jail. After he fixed our muffler, I drove all the way back to New Jersey and didn’t return for 40 years.




I love when it’s almost dawn because that’s when my creature friends wake up and start singing to me.




Just about a month away from the release of HONY Stories! (October 13th) The first few copies have arrived and they look beautiful. The book is pretty massive. It’s 43% larger than the first book and includes more of everything. There are tons of the richer and more mature stories that have emerged over the last couple of years. Plus there are over 100 exclusive stories, which have never been seen and are among my favorites. HONY Stories is the result of thousands of hours of work. And I won’t say it’s perfect. But I’m pretty sure it’s as perfect of a book as I’m capable of making at this point in my life. To top it all off, we managed to keep it at the same price as the last book. ($29.99) You can preorder now for 30% off, and it will be on your doorstep next month!AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND:




Second grade is starting on Wednesday. They assign homework in second grade, so I’m a little worried about that. Also the teachers don’t help you as much. They might see that you are spelling a word wrong, and they’ll let you spell it wrong without even telling you. They’re not being mean. They just want to push you. Not actually push you. But push you to spell better. And I’m pretty sure we’re going to be learning about Native Americans. Because I walked by a second grade class last year and everyone was on the floor making Native American stuff out of clay.




I spent about ten years as a music agent. Along the way, I became very interested in how my clients handled success. Some of them were tremendously successful but quite unhappy. Others seemed quite content with their success. The subject interested me so much that I went back to school to study the science of happiness, and now I teach the subject at NYU. Happiness doesn’t necessarily mean you have a smile on your face. It’s more of a mixing board with several different dials: positive emotion, engagement, relationships, meaning, and achievement. Everyone’s mixing board is set differently. There’s no one way to be happy and there’s no wrong way to be happy. I may draw my happiness from relationships, while somebody else may need to be constantly engaged in the pursuit of a goal.




Ten of us got together and decided to escape. We were all 17 except for two really young kids who wanted to come with us. We had no plan really. The only time we’d ever left the boy’s home was when they brought us to Barnum and Bailey’s circus one time. Other than that, we knew nothing about how to survive in the outside world. The first night, two of us went into a grocery store and tried to steal a bunch of food for the group, but the owner called the cops. We all ran different directions when the cops came. I was the one they chased. I started to run up this mountain and I remember them shouting to me: ‘It’s going to snow tonight!’ All I had on were Nikes. And that night a blizzard came. I’d never been in a blizzard before. So I tried to get off the mountain, but it was dark by then and snowing hard so I fell 30 feet into a ravine. I was unconscious for a long time. When I woke up I was covered in snow, and my foot was frozen solid. (3/3)




I was in the home for 13 years. It was a very abusive environment for everyone there. There were four staff members in particular that were especially bad. One of their favorite forms of punishment was the ‘full burn.’ First they’d make you take your clothes off and lay on the carpet. One of them would sit on your back, and the other one would pull you all the way down the hall. The worst was The Ice Man. If I saw him today, he’d be dead. He was like one of those guys you see in the movies, where even when he smiled, it was ice cold. He’d come in your room and tell you that you had a date with The Ice Man. Then he’d fuck you and make you suck his dick. Then afterward, he’d tell you when your next date was going to be, just so you’d have to worry about it all week. Ten of us tried to escape when I was seventeen. I had a date with The Ice Man coming up so I figured I had nothing to lose. (2/3)




My dad gave me up to the boys’ home when I was four. He told me that he was taking me fishing. He got the poles, the bait, everything. I was excited. He said he knew about a new spot. We pulled up to this huge building. He told me to wait in the car while he ran inside and got permission from his friend. Then he came back with two men. ‘I’m sorry,’ he said, ‘but you have to stay here.’ I kept screaming: ‘I’ll be good! I’ll be good! I’ll be good!’ And he kept saying, ‘It ain’t you. It ain’t you. It ain’t you.’ I ripped his shirt off his back trying to keep him from leaving, and he drove off without a shirt. (1/3)




It got so bad that we started hiding our mother’s keys just to keep her from going to the crack house. My grandmother finally rescued us from her right before I went into middle school. When we got taken away, my mother really went off the deep end. We never heard from her. There was a lot of resentment from my side. It was an awkward age. And whenever there were events at school and my friends brought their parents, I’d get angry all over again. Things started to change when I was 15. I got a really bad case of the West Nile Virus and I almost died, and suddenly Mom got serious about rehab. She didn’t laugh it off anymore. She’d call and talk about the things she was learning in her counseling sessions. She’d tell me about the milestones she reached. She finally got clean and now we’re best friends. We talk every day. Out of all my siblings, I’ve been the most forgiving. I think it was easiest for me because I managed to separate the addiction from the person. Even with how bad it got, and with everything she put us through, there was never a moment that I doubted she loved us.(2/2)




From the ages of 7 to 12, we were pretty much on our own. Sometimes we’d be left alone for days at a time. We wouldn’t have lights, water, or heat. At night we’d huddle around the stove for warmth. We lived in a bad neighborhood, so we knew what was going on. We even knew where the crack house was. We’d walk down the street to see if our mom’s car was parked out front. We ate whatever we could find. Some days it was just cereal and sardines. We shared what we had. My younger brother was the hustler. He was nine. He’d knock on doors in the neighborhood, looking for jobs. He mowed lawns, raked leaves, shoveled snow. Then he’d always share his money with us to buy food. But a lot of times our mom would take it for herself. One time my mom brought us home a dog. We pooled all our money together to buy it food, and took care of it for awhile. But it got sick one day, and we didn’t know what to do, and we couldn’t find our mom. So it died.




I got a message from God the other day about how to solve the world’s problems. We’ve got to send all the world leaders to play on one of Trump’s golf courses. Then while they’re gone, we replace them with grandmas. Because nobody ever got invaded by a grandma.




Today’s his tenth birthday. He’s a very emotional young man. He likes to solve other people’s problems. One time when he was five years old, he came with me to the store and we bought two pounds of fresh apricots. I let him carry the bag home. He walked a little bit behind me the entire way. After awhile, I asked him to hand me an apricot. ‘I can’t,’ he said. ‘I’ve given them all away.’ I knew then that I was raising a humanitarian.(Tabriz, Iran)




My father believed that confidence was the most important thing you could teach a child. Even when I was little, he would do things to make me feel important. One of my earliest memories is a taxi driver asking my father to put me on his lap, so he could fit one more passenger. But my father insisted that I deserved my own seat. He’d bring me to work with him and trust me with jobs. He’d take apart mechanical devices and ask me to reassemble them. If I made a mistake, he’d never punish me. He’d even help me hide my report card if I made a bad grade. He was mainly concerned with building my confidence to attempt new things, so that I could always learn by doing. Now as an adult, people call me crazy for attempting things that seem ‘out of my depth.’ This bridge is one example. Nobody is prouder of this bridge than my father. He collects all the newspaper articles. (2/3)(Tehran, Iran)




With Joanna’s encouragement, I went to school for English. When I passed the entrance exam and was admitted to university, she sent me a long sleeved shirt and $500 for my tuition. I couldn’t believe it. Then every month after that she sent me $50 and an issue of Reader’s Digest. Her only condition was that I continue with my studies and write her one letter every two weeks. She would send each of my letters back with notes and corrections. Soon I knew enough English to get certified as a tour guide. Then I learned Spanish as well. And Italian. I spoke with Joanna on the phone just a few weeks ago. She told me how proud she was of me. "Your English is perfect,' she said. I started crying. I told her ‘I have so much business now. I just bought my own apartment. And it was all because of you.’ (2/2)(Tehran, Iran)


I took the entrance exam for engineering when I was 19. I knew immediately that I had failed. When I got my score, I had an anxiety attack and lost control. I began screaming and beating my head against the wall. It got so bad that they took me to the hospital and injected me. When I came home, I just laid in my bedroom for days. One night my father came in to say ‘hello,’ and when he left, I heard him crying in the hallway. He was a driver for foreign tourists, and the next day he invited me to ride along with him. He was picking up a Swiss woman at the airport. Her name was Joanna. When she arrived, we realized that her travel agency had made a mistake. There was nobody to guide her. Joanna mentioned that she wanted to go to the archaeological museum in the morning. So I woke up at 6 AM, and got to the museum as soon as it opened so I could memorize as much information as I could. When Joanna arrived, I did my best to guide her with my limited English. But she was a very smart lady, and she knew that I wasn’t prepared. But she told me: ‘Mohammed, if you improve your English, you can be an amazing tour leader. And I’m going to support you.’(Tehran, Iran)


My daughter has a heart for animals. She wants to start her own charity to help dogs and cats. But I worry that she will get her heart broken because we have no culture for animals here. Animal lovers are seen as a little strange. But I try to encourage her because I don’t want her to do it secretly. Last year she saw a cat break its leg on the street. And without telling me, she took a taxi all the way to Tehran, just to find a veterinarian.(Anzali, Iran)




I tried to warn her about her last boyfriend, but she didn’t want to listen. Once I overheard him telling her that she needed to respect him. I knew that was bad news. Then he left his home because he got in an argument with his family. I told her: ‘If he’ll do that to his family, he’ll do it to you too.’ But she didn’t listen. She stopped talking to me for a long time. Then sure enough, he took off and left her. She came back and thanked me. Go on, tell them. Mother was right. (Anzali, Iran)




They do nothing but fight at home. But they stick together when we're out in the world." (Namakabroud, Iran)




We were married in the traditional way. Our two families knew each other, so a meeting was arranged. We’d never met. He came to my house with his mother, and we went to a room for two hours and talked. We talked about our expectations, our idea of love, and our plans for the future. I thought about it for two days, then I sent him a text message, saying: ‘Let’s do it.’ And he wrote back: ‘Alright, my dear.’ (Tabriz, Iran)




I was twenty-two during World War II. First the English invaded us from the south, then the Russians invaded us from the north. They had a lot more men than us and the city completely ran out of food. I saw many horrible scenes. My job was to distribute bread from the bakery. Crowds would gather and wait for the handouts. One winter night I found a mother sitting against the bakery wall, nursing her child. I went to give her a loaf of bread, but only the child was alive. (Tehran, Iran)




My father was always very interested in religion. He wrote some books, but I was never religious myself, so I never bothered reading them. He died when I was 25. During the last months of his life, he lost his memory completely. He didn’t even recognize me. But he still remembered the words of his books. He could still recite the religious poems and songs that he’d written. So my brothers and I would sit in his room and read his books aloud to him. It was the first time I’d read them. I was surprised by how beautiful his poems were. I never knew he was so talented.(Tehran, Iran)




I stayed away from home because my father was a very domineering man. So I didn’t spend enough time with my mother before she died.(Tehran, Iran)




I can draw a lot of things. I can draw trees, the sun, clouds, my mom, and my dad. I once drew a picture of a house that was so good, I had to hide it so nobody would steal it.(Tehran, Iran)




There’s a big contrast between my fantasies and my life. I use art to bridge the gap. I’m starting a new project where I’m covering nude bodies with paint and laying them on canvas. The naked body is very natural to me. It’s a matter of truth.(Tehran, Iran)




My doctor told me to stop climbing mountains so now I just climb the small ones." (Tehran, Iran)




She’s from a very conservative family and she’s the only daughter. So I’m trying to win her parents’ trust. We’re up to four hours a week together. As long as we tell her parents exactly where we’re going. And send photos once we get there. And get home before 9 pm. Always before 9 pm.(Tehran, Iran)




I’m trying to be an artist, but my parents just don’t understand. I showed a painting to my mom, and I was like: ‘Do you like it?’ And she was like: ‘I guess, but why is there a cigarette? Are you smoking now?’And I was like: ‘No, Mom. The cigarette represents pain.’And she was like: ‘Did we not love you enough?’(Tehran, Iran)




I want to be a cancer doctor. Because my mom has cancer." (Tehran, Iran)




Things are getting freer. Even a few years ago, I couldn’t wear what I’m wearing now without inviting a rebuke. The scarves are getting brighter and looser. The sleeves are getting shorter. The laughter is getting louder. This is a very young country. More than half the population is under 30. Have you ever seen an Iranian child? They are the most mischievous children on the planet. If you want an Iranian child to do something tell them not to do it. Tell them not to kiss. Tell them not to hold hands. Tell them to dress in black. Tell them not to use Facebook. This country is full of mischievous, curious Iranian children. And the people who make the rules are getting older. And just like the Iranian parent, they are getting exhausted.(Namakabroud, Iran)




We first met in the bazaar. He owns a shop selling men’s suits. We saw each other, but my parents were with me at the time, so he couldn’t talk to me. But he managed to slip me his phone number. We began to talk, and eight months later I had to tell my parents that a guy who slipped me his phone number wanted to propose marriage. My father was upset. But my mother told him: ‘Calm down. It’s a new generation.’(Rasht, Iran)




My mother died when I was two years old, so it’s just me and my father. He’s been really angry with me lately. He’s always wanted me to be an engineer like him, but I switched my major to photography. He didn’t’ show any emotion when I told him. He always has a poker face. But I know that he’s angry from the little things. He never asks me to go shopping with him anymore. We used to go to the market together. He’d pick up a watermelon, inspect it, then would hand it to me for my opinion. It doesn’t sound like much but I really valued that time together. But once I changed my major, he stopped asking me to come along. But I think things are getting better. Recently I scored in the top 5th percentile on the University Entrance Exam for photography. When I told my father, he didn’t show any emotion. But the next day he asked me if I wanted to go shopping. And that made me so happy. Because it’s just the two of us. And I really, really, really, really love him. (Tehran, Iran)




When she was first born, I hugged her, but she didn't cry. I thought: ‘Oh God, something’s wrong.’ But the nurses told me to hold on a second. And they cleared something from her throat. Then she started crying. Then I started crying. And for the first time I knew how it felt to be a mother.(Tehran, Iran)




I like to sit alone and think about the world. I wanted to be a philosophy major, but there is no philosophy class at our universities. The only class offered is ‘Religion and Philosophy.’ We aren’t exactly encouraged to decide things for ourselves. Any philosophy we have must be built on the existence of God. So I switched my major to physics. It still allows me to think about the world. And if someone wants me to say that a thing is true, they need to prove it with a formula.(Tehran, Iran)


I work on a ship so I’m gone for six months at a time.  By the middle of the journey, I’ve adjusted to being away from home.  The first few days and the last few days are the hardest to get through.

(Namakabroud, Iran)


My wife has a brain tumor and I haven’t sold a suit in two weeks. I was with my grandson last week and he asked me to buy him a chocolate. But I had nothing in my pockets. I had to tell him: ‘Wait until your father comes home.’ I wanted to melt into the soil.(Tehran, Iran)




Since he was very young, I’ve tried to show him that we can’t always afford the things that we want. When my wallet is full, I show him. When my wallet is empty, I show him. Things have been especially hard lately because my husband has missed a few paychecks. We couldn’t get new supplies for school this year. But he told me: ‘Don’t worry Mom, we’ll get them when the wallet is full.’ And then the other day he saw that I was upset because we couldn’t get all the groceries we needed. So he went into his room and brought me his own savings.(Anzali, Iran)


We’re fighting her lung cancer right now. She’s lost so much weight. We just moved to the sea so the air would be better. We had a close call the other night. I sleep in a different room because I don’t want to wake her with my snoring. But I woke up in the middle of the night and I could feel that something was wrong. I saw her shadow on the wall. I ran out to meet her in the hall, and she was gasping for her last breath. I had to give her an injection in the chest. If I hadn’t seen her shadow, we’d have lost her. Three years ago, the doctors told us that she only had six months. But God has given us three years. We take walks. We play backgammon. We look at photos of the grandchildren. I’m trying to cherish every moment.(Namakabroud, Iran)




I left Iran eighteen years ago and went to Britain. I felt that I had to leave because the war had just ended and there weren’t many jobs. But I didn’t speak English, and I hadn’t gone to college, so I wasn’t sure how I’d survive. When I arrived in Britain, I found a small apartment to share with two African immigrants. We couldn’t communicate with each other. I tried turning on the television but I couldn’t understand anything. I totally lost my confidence. Luckily I met another Iranian immigrant who offered me a job at his fish-n-chips shop. My job was to mop the floor and peel potatoes. It was very difficult to adjust. I felt very lonely. I’d been a wrestler back in my hometown. People had respected me. Now I was at the bottom. Years later, I’d own several of my own restaurants. But that first night I cried the entire walk home.(Namakabroud, Iran)




It's taken a lot of time to fit together like this." (Namakabroud, Iran)




I'm supposed to watch them while Mom takes a nap. If they're too close to each other, they fight. If they're too far away from each other, they cry." (Anzali, Iran)


I'm bored with my life.  Last year my wife passed away.  I used to leave work as early as possible so we could have dinner together.  Now I go home as late as I possibly can.

(Chalus, Iran)


My dad taught me how to swim!" How do you swim?" First put on your life jacket and then hold on to the raft." (Anzali, Iran)




I saw the text messages from other women before we got married. My parents warned me but I married him anyway, without their permission. I thought he’d change. Now he leaves for days at a time. He tells me: ‘Calm down. It’s nothing. They come and go. But I live with you.’ But I can’t calm down. I think about it all the time. Whenever he’s out, I think about it. I try to keep busy and calm my mind but it’s gotten so bad that I’m seeing a doctor.(Rasht, Iran)




I’ve fallen in love with literature. I try to read for one or two hours every day. I only have one life to live. But in books I can live one thousand lives.(Rasht, Iran)




Today in microfashion (Tabriz, Iran)




He tried to take a social studies test for me once. But we got caught because he wrote his own name." (Chalus, Iran)




She had heart surgery when she was four years old. It was a very hard day. We all stood around her bed and told her that there was nothing to worry about. But all of us were terrified.(Namakabroud, Iran)




It took us ten years, countless doctor appointments, and three miscarriages to have her. So we never feel bothered by her cries.(Namakabroud, Iran)




My last stop this summer is Iran. Iran holds a special place in my heart because it was the first international trip that I ever made with HONY. But that was three years ago, and I’ve always looked back at the collection with a tinge of regret, because HONY was still quite new and the work was pretty uncooked. I was only just beginning to include quotes alongside the photographs. I always wished that I could return and do a better job telling the stories of ordinary Iranians, and I’m excited to have that opportunity.




A Final Word On Pakistan:Imagine that every time you have a lapse in judgment, it gets printed in newspapers around the world: every time you lose patience with your children, every time you scream at someone in traffic, every time you drink too much and do something you regret. Each time you slip up, everyone hears about it. The world is never notified about the 99.99% of the time that you are a completely normal, productive, law-abiding citizen. The world only learns about you when things go wrong. Now imagine what the world would think of you.It’s not that terrorism, patriarchy, and violence aren’t real problems in Pakistan. They exist and the country is battling these issues every single day. Pakistanis are very much aware of the extremism in their midst. The problem is that so many people seem to only be aware of that extremism. Because just as in the hypothetical example above—the other 99.99% of life just doesn’t make the news. When there’s only room in the newspaper for a single column about Pakistan, it’s going to be filled with the most compelling story. And unfortunately, that tends to be the most violent story.And those are important stories. Those are the types of stories that expose corruption, stop genocide, and alert the world to emerging threats. It’s right for those stories to be told. But when those stories are all that we hear, it’s so easy to imagine a world that’s far scarier than it really is. You lose sight of the 99.99% of the world that’s not scary at all. And living in fear can be a dangerous thing. Because if we’re afraid of each other, we’ll never be able to work together to solve our common problems.




Before this fundraiser, Fatima had exhausted her financial resources in the struggle against bonded labor to the point where she feared that she'd be unable to pay her own medical bills. Thanks to everyone who donated over the past 72 hours, she now has nearly $2 million to continue her organization's fight against bonded labor. (To fully visualize this impact, it should be realized that the purchasing power of a dollar in Pakistan is about 5x greater than in the United States.) This is an absolutely transformational amount of money. Fatima is meeting with the board of the BLLF to plan a major expansion of their efforts, and she wanted me to pass along this statement:From BLLF and from all of the bonded labourers, thank you. Thank you to everyone who has opened their hearts and donated to our cause. I struggle to find the words, I don't think I have the words to tell you how grateful we are. You have donated for freedom, for rehabilitation and we are indebted. Thank you so much. The prayers of every labourer are with you and they will always hold you in their hearts. Our responsibility now is to honour what you have trusted us with, and we will. We have a lot of work ahead of us, but we want to build a real freedom center in Lahore, here we can work on not just releasing families but rehabilitation. We want workers to be treated with the rights they deserve as citizens.Pakistan faces a lot of challenges, and we want industry to thrive in Pakistan, but the labourers must be free. You cannot make people work by beating and chaining them. I believe that the day the owners understand me, that the day the worker is happy, the profits will be greater. Labour rights need to be regulated, owners have the right to make profit but not through abuse, and deprivation. That is not an industry, that is slavery.This is a big step for labourers that this has received so much attention, and that their voices have reached a global stage and we are being heard. With this we hope to end bonded labour in Pakistan."




Yesterday 40,000 people donated over $1,000,000 in fewer than 12 hours to help Fatima end bonded labor. The fundraiser currently sits at almost $1,400,000. There were no perks offered. No ‘reward levels.’ This was motivated by nothing more than genuine compassion and a desire to empower a woman who’s devoted her life to freeing people trapped in modern slavery. Thank you so much. Fatima has prepared a statement that I will post shortly. I want to conclude this series with a story that will show you the character of the person you’ve just empowered. This is one of thousands of anecdotes that reveal a person who is more committed to humanity than to her own safety or comfort:Recently a family trapped in bonded labor got in touch with Fatima. They told her that they could not escape their owners, and that the girls in the family were being sexually abused by the owners. Fatima immediately jumped in her car and drove to the kiln in the middle of the night. She told the family to run. The owners woke up and began to fire guns. The family reached the car, but the youngest girl—only four years old had fallen down and been captured.For three months the child was missing. Fatima went to court and begged for intervention, but the police kept insisting that they’d searched the kiln, and no child could be found. I couldn’t sleep, explains Fatima. Every night I laid in bed and could think about nothing but this young girl in the hands of her brutalizers. I stayed awake all night thinking about how I could rescue her.Fatima recruited several other laborers to help her. Dressed in rags, they went to the kiln and pretended to be workers. They spent several days searching. They couldn’t find the girl anywhere. But from the owner’s house, they heard constant crying. They went back to the court and demanded that the house be investigated. The girl was found. But for weeks, she would not eat, talk, or cry. Fatima eventually learned that every time the girl would cry for food, the owner would beat her. (Lahore, Pakistan)(7 of 7)-I’m going to leave the fundraiser up for the remainder of the day.Anyone else who wishes to donate, can do so here: 




My sister’s kidneys were failing. We tried to raise the money to save her. We sold our cattle. We sold our property. We sold everything we had. When we ran out of options, I took a 5,000 rupee loan from the brick kiln. I thought I could pay it back by working for 15 or 20 days. But when I thought it was time to leave, the kiln owners did the accounts. They told me: ‘You lived in our house. You ate our food. You owe 11,000 now. If you have 11,000 rupees, you can go. Otherwise get back to work.’ They worked me harder. I never saw my wages. If I wanted to stop, they beat me. A few months later, my grandfather died. I asked for a few days off to arrange his funeral. ‘You owe 30,000 rupees now,’ they told me. ‘If you have 30,000 rupees, you can leave. Otherwise get back to work.’ Now I owe 350,000 rupees. And my sister died a long time ago. There’s no way out. Soon my debt will pass on to the next generation.*1,000 rupees = $10(6 of 7)(Lahore, Pakistan)This is the sixth post in a series on Syeda Ghulam Fatima. Known to her admirers as Pakistan’s Harriet Tubman, Fatima has worked tirelessly to eradicate bonded labor—one of the last remaining forms of modern slavery. This man is one of millions of bonded laborers in Pakistan, and one of the tens of thousands who has turned directly to Fatima to help him escape the violence and cruelty of his owners. Fatima has been electrocuted, shot, and repeatedly beaten for her activism. Despite her outsized impact, she operates on a very small budget. So we are raising money to help her in her mission.Today is the last day of the fundraiser we are holding for Fatima’s organization, The Bonded Labour Liberation Front. We have raised nearly $600,000 so far. ($400,000 in the past six hours). Costs are low in Pakistan, so this sort of money can be leveraged many times over. We are not just increasing Fatima’s abilities to help free people from bondage. We are MULTIPLYING those abilities. Nearly 20,000 people have contributed so far. That is .13 percent of the people who follow this page. If .2 percent of people who follow this page donated, we could empower Fatima with $1,000,000. I encourage everyone to read the previous posts so far, and consider being counted in our effort to aid Fatima’s fight against modern slavery:




My sister fell ill and her medical bills cost 30,000 rupees. My father wasn’t getting his salary on time, so we had no options. I took a loan from the brick kiln and agreed to work for them until it was paid off. Other members of my family did the same. We thought it would only take three months. But when I went to leave, they told me I owed them 90,000 rupees. I couldn’t believe it. They told me I couldn’t leave. It’s like quicksand. They only pay you 200 rupees per 1000 bricks, and it all goes to them, and the debt keeps growing. We are supposed to work from dawn to dusk for six days a week, but we never get the 7th day off. They tell me I owe them 900,000 rupees now. There is no hope for me. Every year they have a market. The brick kiln owners get together and they sell us to each other. Just ten days ago my entire family was sold for 2.2 million rupees.*1,000 rupees = $10 (5 of 7)(Lahore, Pakistan)This is the fifth post in a series on Syeda Ghulam Fatima. Known to her admirers as Pakistan’s Harriet Tubman, Fatima has worked tirelessly to eradicate bonded labor—one of the last remaining forms of modern slavery. This man is one of millions of bonded laborers in Pakistan, and one of the tens of thousands who has turned directly to Fatima to help him escape the violence and cruelty of his owners. Fatima has been electrocuted, shot, and repeatedly beaten for her activism. Despite her outsized impact, she operates on a very small budget. So we are raising money to help her in her mission.Today is the last day of the fundraiser we are holding for Fatima’s organization, The Bonded Labour Liberation Front. We have raised nearly $400,000 so far. Costs are low in Pakistan, so this sort of money can be leveraged many times over. We are not just increasing Fatima’s abilities to help free people from bondage. We are MULTIPLYING those abilities. Over 12,000 people have contributed so far. 15,000 people would be 1% participation. One percent may not sound like much, but for a community of 15,000,000 people, I think that is an amazing amount of engagement.* I encourage everyone to read the previous posts so far, and consider being counted in our effort to aid Fatima’s fight against modern slavery: *Edit: 15,000 is .1% participation. Luckily I'm taking photos and not teaching math.


I was born into the brick kilns.  I started working at the age of 12.  The work never ended.  We’re expected to make 1,000 bricks per day.  We work from 5 AM to dusk.  I tried to organize the workers recently to demand fair wages.   We held meetings at night, but one of the workers informed on us.  The owners called me to the office and beat me.  They made the other workers join in.  Then they took off all my clothes and tied me to a tree.  I begged them not to do it.  They left me there for hours.  I tried to escape at night.  I padlocked my family in the house and I ran into the fields.  I came straight to Fatima.  Before we could return for my family, the police had helped the owners break into my house.  And my daughters were paraded naked in the streets.

(4 of 7)
(Lahore, Pakistan)



This is the fourth post in a series on Syeda Ghulam Fatima.  Known to her admirers as Pakistan’s Harriet Tubman, Fatima has worked tirelessly to eradicate bonded labor—one of the last remaining forms of modern slavery.  This man is one of millions of bonded laborers in Pakistan, and one of the tens of thousands who has turned directly to Fatima to help him escape the violence and cruelty of the owners.  Fatima has been electrocuted, shot, and repeatedly beaten for her activism. Despite her outsized impact, she operates on a very small budget. So we are raising money to help her in her mission.

Today is the last day of the fundraiser we are holding for Fatima’s organization, The Bonded Labour Liberation Front.  We have raised nearly $250,000 so far.  Costs are low in Pakistan, so this sort of money can be leveraged many times over.  We are not just increasing Fatima’s abilities to help free people from bondage.  We are MULTIPLYING those abilities.  Nearly 8,000 people have contributed so far.  I encourage everyone to read the previous posts, and consider being counted in our effort to aid Fatima’s fight against modern slavery:


I was walking to court to attend a hearing against a kiln owner when suddenly I was surrounded by a group of men. Everyone ran away except for my brother and me. The men told me that I better drop the case. I told them I would not. Then they knocked me to the ground, pulled back my leg, and shot me in the knee. Afterwards they did the same to my brother. We thought we were dead. I was taken to the public hospital but was turned away. Politicians from the local ruling party had forbidden the doctors from treating me. The assailants were never prosecuted. I had to sell my house to afford treatment at a private hospital. But the brick kiln workers came together to try to help me pay for my treatment. Despite their poverty, they gave 5 to 10 rupees at a time. And they lined up to donate their blood.(3 of 7)(Lahore, Pakistan)This is the third post in a series on Syeda Ghulam Fatima. Known to her admirers as Pakistan’s Harriet Tubman, Fatima has worked tirelessly to eradicate bonded labor—one of the last remaining forms of modern slavery. She has been electrocuted, shot, and repeatedly beaten for her activism. Despite her outsized impact, she operates on a very small budget. So we are raising money to help her in her mission. As is clear from her story, Fatima puts 100% of her own resources, both physical and financial, into her activism. Every dollar donated will have significant impact. There is no better way to impact the battle against modern slavery than empowering one of its most forceful opponents:
Bricks are the primary unit of construction across Pakistan.  They are cheaper than concrete so almost everything is made with brick especially in rural areas.  There are 20,000 brick kilns across the country.  We estimate that an average of 40 families work on each of these kilns and that each family is required to make 1000 bricks per day.  That means 4.5 million people are living in slavery conditions.  And so many of these workers are young children.  Often they work all day and are denied education.  They work in isolated areas, shielded from the eyes of society and hidden from the protection of the constitution.  The laws don’t reach the kilns, so the workers live in constant fear of violence and retribution.  The kiln owners are so rich and powerful.  Their profits represent nearly 3% of Pakistan’s GDP.  They put their friends and relatives in the legislature.  They bribe and intimidate the police.  It is very dangerous to speak out against them.  I’ve been attacked and threatened so many times that I no longer fear death.

(2 of 7)
(Lahore, Pakistan)

-

This is the second post in a series on Syeda Ghulam Fatima.  Known to her admirers as Pakistan’s Harriet Tubman, Fatima has worked tirelessly to eradicate bonded labor—one of the last remaining forms of modern slavery.  She has been electrocuted, shot, and repeatedly beaten for her activism.  Despite her outsized impact, she operates on a very small budget.  So we are raising money for the organization that Fatima leads: the Bonded Labour Liberation Front.  US Dollars can be leveraged for so much impact in Pakistan.  Your donation will go very far.  So please, let’s help empower Fatima in her fight to end slavery:
I want to conclude the Pakistan series by spotlighting a very special change agent who is working to eradicate one of the nation’s most pressing social ills.  Over 20,000 brick kilns operate in Pakistan, supported by millions of workers, and the system is largely underpinned by an extremely close cousin of slavery—bonded labor.  Throughout rural Pakistan, illiterate and desperate laborers are tricked into accepting small loans in exchange for agreeing to work at brick kilns for a small period of time.  But due to predatory terms, their debt balloons, growing larger as time goes on, with no possibility of repayment, until these laborers are condemned to work for the rest of their lives for no compensation.  If the laborer dies, the debt is passed on to his or her children.The practice is illegal.  But due to the extreme power and wealth of brick kiln owners, the law is often unenforced in rural areas.  It is estimated that well over one million men, women, and children are trapped in this modern feudalist system.

Meet Syeda Ghulam Fatima.  Described as a modern day Harriet Tubman, Fatima has devoted her life to ending bonded labor.  She has been shot, electrocuted, and beaten numerous times for her activism.  Quite literally, she places herself between the workers and their owners.  The organization she leads, the Bonded Labour Liberation Front, is small but determined.  It is working to set up Freedom Centers throughout rural Pakistan so that every bonded laborer has access to advocacy and legal aid.  Fatima operates on a very small budget.  So as we learn her story over the next few days, anyone wishing to help empower Fatima can donate to Bonded Labour Liberation Front here:




She doesn’t speak up for herself, so I’m afraid if someone harms her she wouldn’t tell me. I don’t learn about things that happen to her until they are reflected in her behavior at home. Recently I found her washing the dishes, and I asked her where she learned to do that. She told me: ‘When I visit my friend’s house, I do the dishes all the time.’(Lahore, Pakistan)




I’ve been getting passed over by smooth talkers my entire life. It’s just not in my nature to exaggerate my role. But there’s always that guy who waits until the boss comes around, and then starts loudly giving directions as if he was coordinating all the work.(Lahore, Pakistan)




We have located the woman from yesterday's post, and are in contact with her. We also have someone in Lahore who is going to help connect her with those who wish to help. In order to streamline that process, we created a new email account for all such offers. She is hoping for someone who can help connect her with services, as opposed to cash donations. If you believe you can help this woman with accommodation and/or medical treatment, please email: honypakassist@gmail.com. Thanks everyone. Based on the outpouring of offers and support from yesterday, hopefully we can help her heal and get back on her feet.I left an abusive relationship and I have nowhere to go. I have Hepatitis C, so no one is willing to take me in. I don’t know how long I will live. I tried to give her up for adoption so that she’d have a good home. The wife of a minister told me about a place where I could drop her off. But when I got there, I just couldn’t bring myself to do it. (Lahore, Pakistan)




My first daughter passed away immediately after she was born. All the reports had been fine leading up to the birth. I lost consciousness in the delivery room, and when I woke up, there was no baby. I had fear in my heart, but everyone kept giving me false assurances. They said that everything was fine, but that the baby ‘just wasn’t feeling well.’ But I knew what had happened. I never even asked to see her. Finally they told me, ‘God has taken his gift from you.’ When this one was born, the doctors had to take her away for five days. Everyone kept telling me not to worry. I thought it was happening all over again.(Lahore, Pakistan)


I lost my family home because of my gambling.  I couldn’t handle the stress so I needed an escape.  I used to be a body builder.  My arms were this thick.  I was healthier than you are.  But now this is my only breakfast.  It makes me numb and I sleep until the evening.  It’s been about ten years.  And the longer I do it, the more pain that’s waiting for me if I stop.

(Lahore, Pakistan)


Our friends are trying to set us up." (Lahore, Pakistan)


I’m trying to help her figure out her future. I was working at the Sunday market, and she asked me for help setting up a stand of her own. She told me about her story and showed me her bruises and marks. I’m trying to help her all I can, but my means are limited. My own income is only 2500 rupees a week and I’m getting engaged next week. I’m trying to set up a committee to donate blood because she really needs it. (2/2)(Lahore, Pakistan)




I left an abusive relationship and I have nowhere to go. I have Hepatitis C, so no one is willing to take me in. I don’t know how long I will live. I tried to give her up for adoption so that she’d have a good home. The wife of a minister told me about a place where I could drop her off. But when I got there, I just couldn’t bring myself to do it. (Lahore, Pakistan)




Today in microfashion(Lahore, Pakistan)




My daughter had a hole in her heart. I prayed constantly because I never knew the moment that God would be listening. We were given medication from the doctor, and then God healed her.(Lahore, Pakistan)




I’m studying cardiac regeneration to help repair damaged hearts. It was widely believed that hearts cells could not be replenished, but we’ve used carbon dating to discover cells in the heart that are younger than the heart itself. So I believe it is possible. (Lahore, Pakistan)




My brother works in a camera factory. Yesterday he brought home something that projects monsters on my bedroom wall.(Lahore, Pakistan)




I was never educated because I began working when I was a child. I was always envious of the boys who got to wear uniforms and go to school. This is her first month of school. She comes home and tells me exactly what happened, everyday. I love it. If I’m not home for a few days, she’ll save up all her stories, then tell them to me all at once.(Lahore, Pakistan)




It seems that violence is the only lens through which ordinary people in Pakistan are viewed in the media. Even if it’s a story about a Pakistani rock band, it will be set in the context of a violent society. There’s nothing false about the perspective. Pakistan has a problem with violence. Violence is used to silence journalists, and judges, and moderate religious scholars. And it seems to be getting worse. Every time I see somebody on television speaking out in anger against extremism or corruption—I’ll say a prayer for them. And every time one of those people is murdered, those of us who aspire to be like them grow a little more afraid. So it’s not that the reports of violence are false. But they are only a small part of the truth. There’s so much other life being lived here. But there’s only so much space in international newspapers. And there’s so much news in the world. So only the most jarring stories make the cut.(Karachi, Pakistan)


My husband passed away eight years ago.  His death ruined my life.   I couldn’t pay rent anymore.  The people in the neighborhood tried to help me at first.  Every day they would arrange two or three hundred rupees to pay my bills and send groceries to my house.  But eventually their charity ran out and they told me it was time to seek help from God.  Now I sleep on the floor of a relative’s house, and during the day I sit here and beg to pass the time.  This is the fate God has chosen for me.  When I talk about these things, my heart begins to sink.  If I stay quiet, I feel OK.

(Karachi, Pakistan)
My father was killed in a suicide bombing in 2003, while he was attending Friday prayers. We were at home. We’d prepared a lunch for him and were expecting him any minute. Suddenly our relatives began calling to ask if he’d been at the mosque. He left us a small, sweet message before he died. He said: ‘I love you all and follow what I taught you.’ The ambulance driver told us that he refused to be taken away, and that he insisted they treat other people first. We believe he was martyred. And we believe that those who are martyred never die. We think he’s still with our family and shares our concerns. Whenever I am tense or nervous, or achieve something big, I smell him. He had his own smell. I don’t know how to describe it.(Karachi, Pakistan)
I’ve been complaining about a good friend to my colleagues recently, and I need to stop. This is someone who’s been like a brother to me. When my pockets were empty, he stepped in to help me out. Recently he’s done some small things that bother me. And I’ve somehow allowed those small things to blind me from all the big things that he’s done in the past.(Karachi, Pakistan)


He’s my only grandchild. Every time he does anything, I enjoy it. The other day he pulled down the TV set. I didn’t even mind.(Karachi, Pakistan)


I want to be a teacher, like my mom."
What's the key to being a good teacher?"
Don't hit the children."

(Karachi, Pakistan)


On her sixth birthday, two of her friends came over and brought her presents. One of the presents was big, and the other was small. The friend who’d brought the big present was laughing at the smaller present. It was so hard for me to not intervene. I was so used to telling my daughter how to act and what to say. But I decided that this time I’d sit back and see how she responded. I like both my presents the same, she said. And I remember feeling so proud, because I knew that what I’d been teaching her was working.(Karachi, Pakistan)


The last business I worked for got attacked. It started with phone calls making threats and asking for money. My boss refused to pay. Then one day, two men on motorcycles pulled up and started shooting. The security guards ran away. My friend was shot. A few days later, the calls started again. My new business is too small to get extorted, but I still feel the effects. All my materials cost more, because the cost of extortion gets passed all the way down the supply chain.(Karachi, Pakistan)


My father made this business and I took it over from him. He was a self-made man. His own father died young, so he only studied up to fifth grade. He quit school and started delivering food and tea when he was ten. Eventually he bought this small table, and grew it into a restaurant with 27 tables. He wanted us to have a better life. With all the work he put into us, I should have accomplished more. But I was responsible for my own destruction. He sent me to one of the best high schools in the city, but he was always at work. So I had no supervision and all I did was play video games. He worked so hard for me and I didn’t even study. But my son will be different. He’s going to be an important man.(Karachi, Pakistan)


My mom is afraid of me studying abroad because she thinks I'll stand out too much.  I asked her: "How is that any different than here?'"

(Karachi, Pakistan)


We lost by 47 runs yesterday. We're not in good form because our moms won’t let us practice during exam time.(Karachi, Pakistan)




I belong to a very conservative family, so I’ve been dealing with a lot of permission issues. There are a lot of boundaries on me. Most of the women in my family are housewives, and my father would prefer me to become a housewife as well. But I’ve been working so hard in school. I’m studying all the freaking time. These exams are so tough. I don’t want all this hard work to be wasted. I want to be a businesswoman. My mother is a housewife. She needs to ask my father for everything. When he’s not around, she tells me: ‘Do exactly what you want to do.’(Karachi, Pakistan)
I take her everywhere I go."

(Karachi, Pakistan)


Shortly after we were married, I got tuberculosis and rashes broke out all over my body. They smelled so bad that I had to be cleaned three times a day. She always made me fresh food and made sure I had clean clothes every time I bathed. One morning, during this time, she asked me: ‘Would you do the same if I got sick?’ I promised her: ‘I’ll do even more.’ She died a few years ago from a brain tumor. She was in bed for the last three years of her life. Toward the end, she couldn’t identify people. Water from her brain would drain from her eyes. I ran home from the shop three times a day to help her go to the bathroom. I was always sure to turn her. She never had a single bedsore. In the end, the doctor told me: ‘It would not have been possible to take better care of her.’(Karachi, Pakistan)




Lyari is a tough neighborhood. There are a lot of gangs, and people are always trying to bribe young kids to do bad things. I've run this arcade for 15 years. It makes me happy to see children playing games instead of getting caught up in those things." (Karachi, Pakistan)


I want to have my own career. I don’t want to depend on anyone else. But there’s a view in our society that an independent woman doesn’t belong here. She is not ‘one of us.’ So if you want to do some things on your own, they expect you to do everything on your own. And that’s difficult. Because wanting to be independent doesn’t mean I want to be alone.(Karachi, Pakistan)




Today in microfashion(Karachi, Pakistan)




When I was ten years old, I had a bad disease that caused me to lose consciousness and when I woke up, I was blind. I screamed: ‘Mom, I can’t see anymore!’ And we both started crying. It’s been a very hard life for me. Nobody would give his daughter to a blind man. If I dwelled on how lonely I am, I’d have died a long time ago. My only friend is the radio.(Karachi, Pakistan)


I tried to travel to a school for the blind in India.  When I got off the train, a man offered to polish my boots at the railway station.  He was very nice to me.  When he heard where I was going, he offered to take me there.  Along the way, we stopped to take a dip in a stream.  When I got out of the water, he had disappeared.  He’d taken everything.  I started screaming and crying.  I heard some kids in the distance, so I tried to walk toward them, but it was hilly and thorny, and I kept falling down.  When I finally reached them, they didn’t understand Urdu.  But they took me to some men who helped me.  ‘You’re lucky,’ they told me.  ‘We find a lot of dead bodies in that stream.’(Karachi, Pakistan)


The rain delayed our wedding. All the guests are stuck in traffic. We're just killing time and trying to stay calm. We were afraid that everyone would stay home, but I just called my father and he said that people are beginning to show up. So we're about to leave." (Karachi, Pakistan)




I'm forty years old, and she still can't fall asleep unless I'm home safe at night." (Karachi, Pakistan)


What are you doing?" Nothing." (Karachi, Pakistan)
I want to be a police officer." What will be the best part about being a police officer?" The power." (Babusar Top, Pakistan)


Education changed the lives of my entire family. Before education, we knew only how to work. It was always very quiet in our home. My grandfather was a laborer, but he paid to send my father to a tutor so that he could learn to read. He told my father that, if nothing else, he should begin by learning how to read and write his name. When I was born, my father taught me how to read. I started with local newspapers. I learned that our village was part of a country. Then I moved on to books. And I learned that there was an entire world around this mountain. I learned about human rights. Now I’m studying political science at the local university. I want to be a teacher.(Hunza Valley, Pakistan)




I admired her from afar for a while, and eventually summed up the courage to tell her my feelings. She told me that she felt the same way. This was before cell phones, so at first our meetings were limited to random interactions on the street. But then we both got mobiles and started talking on the phone. Eventually she told me that she wanted to marry me. I sent my mother to ask her family for permission, but they didn’t think I was a suitable match. They were a higher class of people. They were educated. Her father was a business owner. I tried to plead with them: ‘I’m not paralyzed,’ I told them. ‘I work. Why am I not good enough?’ But I was never given an answer.(Hunza Valley, Pakistan)


My father passed away a year before I got married. I wish he could have lived to see me start my own family. After God, he was my god. There was no infrastructure here when I was growing up, so we lived through very hard times and often there was no food. But he’d do whatever he could to make us forget. One night he organized an entire musical. We couldn’t afford instruments so we pretended that we had them. Every one in the family had a role. I was the star.(Hunza Valley, Pakistan)


I’m studying overseas at a small college in Minnesota. I’m just home for the summer. There’s definitely more outward freedom in the states to wear what I want and do what I want. But I never feel completely at ease because there are only three Pakistanis at my school, and I feel that everything I do reflects on my family, my religion, and my country. I feel pressured to always be exceedingly polite and well behaved, even when I don’t feel like it. But in Pakistan I can relax more, even though the electricity sometimes goes out and I’ve already been mugged twice since I’ve been back. Because here I feel like my actions only reflect on me.(Hunza Valley, Pakistan)


We lost their mother to a heart attack recently. And their father is overseas trying to find a job. So I’m currently Grandpa, Grandma, Mom, and Dad. Luckily I have five children and eighteen grandchildren, so I’m very experienced. There’s actually one more child at home—he’s eight years old. And none of them can fall asleep unless they are lying next to me. So I have to put the oldest one to sleep first. Then I get up quietly, and lie down between the other two. The only problem is sometimes they fall asleep on top of me.(Passu, Pakistan)




I was born paralyzed from the waist down. But this community is so tolerant that I never had to worry about fitting in. I only had to focus on improving myself. Everyone treated me as normal. I got everything my older brother got, including punishment. I never once escaped a spanking. I dove off cliffs. I swam. I played cricket and badminton. I climbed trees. The only thing my family told me not to do was play music, because they thought it would distract me from my studies. But eventually I got so good, they couldn't even tell me to stop that.(Hunza Valley, Pakistan)




This is the worst time of my life. I have two brothers. A few years ago, one of them was diagnosed with polio. And he can’t walk anymore. And last year, my other brother got a brain tumor. And he can no longer remember my name. So one brother needs me to be his legs. And the other needs me to be his mind. My father is too old to work, so I support us all on a soldier’s salary. If something happens to me, there will be no hope for any of us.(Hunza Valley, Pakistan)




Last month I had an accident that destroyed my tractor, and now my life has been ruined. I’d saved for that tractor for three years. When I finally bought it, I was so happy. Things seemed to finally be moving forward. I was working crops and making money. Now it’s destroyed, but I still owe $5000. I only make $120 a month, and most of that goes toward renting this new tractor. I’m still very injured from the accident. I should be in bed but I couldn’t take any more days off. I didn’t used to look like this. I used to care about my appearance and wear proper clothes. I used to eat proper meals. But I can’t afford any of that now. I have nothing left to sacrifice.(Passu, Pakistan)




He’s a very respectful husband. He’s different from a lot of the men in this region. He never stops me from voicing my opinions. And if he ever notices me walking down the road, there’s always hot tea and apricot cake waiting when I arrive.(Passu, Pakistan)




My life is on repeat, every day. This area is surrounded by water, but my village has no access, so every morning I make a two-hour trek to the glacier so we have something to drink. During the day I work to maintain this road. I get $100 a month. In the winter, I make daily trips to cut wood so we can stay warm. I can’t leave this land because it’s all I have. There is no happiness or sadness in my life. Only survival.(Passu, Pakistan)


I just found out we've been evicted. Right after you leave, I'm going to start packing up. I've got to find my family a new place to live by tonight. The landlady is a good woman. She's just in a tough situation. Her disabled son lost his home. I'll handle it. I've been through worse." (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)


Sorry, my English is not good.  I’m here to climb mountains.  I left my husband and sweet childrens back in Austria.

(Hunza Valley, Pakistan)


When I'm bored, I call up Radio Pakistan and request a song, then I start dancing. I'll even dance on a rainy day. It's my way of expressing how grateful I am. I am the happiest man in Pakistan." (Passu, Pakistan)




When I was working on my doctorate, I discovered on the last day that my thesis was ten pages short, and he left his own office to run whatever errands I needed. He didn't even have a car. He took a rickshaw. I had a dream when I was deciding whether or not to marry him. I was falling through the air, but I didn't feel any fear, because I knew that he would catch me." (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)


Today in microfashion.

(Hunza Valley, Pakistan)


I grew up in the village behind me. It's very beautiful here but there are few opportunities. Whenever I think about my children's prospects, I grow sad. I have nothing to provide for them so they'll probably end up like me, taking whatever work they can just to survive. My parents died when I was ten. I went to live with my aunt and my uncle. They never gave me grief. They never made me feel bad. But they were also poor, and every time we sat down to eat, I felt like I was stealing from their family. The guilt grew so bad that when I turned 15, I tried to build a shed for myself. I lived there for about six months. But then the winter came. And eventually the cold grew stronger than the guilt." (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)




I want to be a chef." What's the best part about being a chef?" You can make your own dessert." (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)




What's your favorite thing about your sister?" Her happiness." (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)


I wanted to be a singer.  I loved music.  I practiced all the time and worked on writing songs for myself.  I loved sad songs especially.  But the community put so much pressure on my mother.  My father passed away when I was twelve.  And everyone kept telling my mother that a girl could not be something like a singer without her father’s permission.  My father wouldn’t have minded.  He was always so supportive of me.  But my mom was so worried about what people would think.  She begged me to stop.  She grew so nervous that I finally told her, ‘It's OK, Mom.  I’ll stop.’  Now I just listen to music.  It’s too sad for me to sing anymore.

(Hunza Valley, Pakistan)


There were no paved roads here when I was a boy. We had to walk for 3 days to get to places that only take 2 hours now. There was never any money for school. We had no wealth or property. Beginning at six years old, I cleaned dishes at a restaurant until 9 pm. Then I would go to sleep and start again. All my money went to my parents. I'd hear stories about cities and airplanes, but they seemed like fairy tales. I'd dream of visiting these places, but before I could get too far, I'd be hungry again. So I grew up thinking that the entire world was like our valley. I thought all children lived like me. Then one day when I turned 16, I had the opportunity to visit to the city of Gilgit. I couldn't believe it. I saw a boy eating at a restaurant with his father. He was my age. He was wearing a school uniform. I broke down in tears." (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)




What's your goat's name?" Goat." (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)




One beautiful thing about advocating for the poor is that feminist ideals are advanced naturally. In order to fight eviction from their homes, women whose patriarchy has kept them secluded have been allowed to emerge into public life. Their husbands have been forced to choose their homes over their idea of honor. Even within my organization, the patriarchy is being broken down. Energetic young females are beginning to share influence with older male members. When you’re in a tough fight for a common cause, you can’t afford to be choosy about where the best ideas are coming from.(Hunza Valley, Pakistan)




It’s a difficult time to be a socialist. The left has been depleted everywhere else, but in Pakistan it’s been decimated. I belong to an organization called the Awami Worker’s Party, and right now is a crucial moment for us. We are trying to resist slum evictions in Islamabad. There is no affordable housing in the city, so servants and laborers huddle together in informal settlements called kachi abadis, which have no water or electricity. Recently, the Islamabad high court has issued an eviction notice, and the land is being sold out beneath them. They are defending their actions by saying that terrorists hide in the slums. Right now an operation is underway to remove the slum inhabitants by force." (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)


The most important thing about swimming is to not be afraid." What advice do you have for people who are afraid?" Just don't be afraid. Or you'll drown." (Hunza Valley, Pakistan)




Continuing in the tradition of last summer, I’m going to be travelling during the month of August and posting stories from overseas. Only this time I’ll be visiting two countries instead of trying to span the world, because that was exhausting, and it also caused my poor senile dog to forget my existence. The first stop is Pakistan. Hope you enjoy.


I had a nanny named Carmela Geribelli. She was a Sicilian woman who lived across the hall from me at my apartment building in Queens. We lived in 2B and she lived in 2M. My parents were always working so I’d live with her during the week. She always had me pick her horse when she bet on the races. And whenever something bad happened, for some reason, she’d scream: ‘Shit on toast!’ All my extended family lived in Korea, so I even called her ‘Grandmother.’ I’d spend every Christmas with my Korean family, and every Christmas Eve I’d spend with my Italian family across the hall."




I found out my boyfriend was cheating when I got Chlamydia.




There were two young people fighting at the apartment I was staying in, so the police came. They took all our IDs and saw that my green card had expired, so they took me to jail. It was my fault for not renewing it, but I really thought they’d let me go after a few days. I couldn’t afford a lawyer. When they finally assigned me one, she told me that I was going to have to stay in jail and that it was going to take over a year to sort out. I couldn’t believe it. There were four times that I went in front of the judge: first they presented the case, next they figured out the charges, next they started working on the case, then they made a decision. But there were several months between each court appearance. I had never gotten in trouble before. Just a few misdemeanors when I was younger. But I had to wait in jail for 18 months. It was my fault, though. I should have renewed my green card.




I shot my father in the brain but I was acquitted because he abused me.


Serving in the army, you can say that I was a pawn in another person’s game.  But you can say the same thing about someone that works at JP Morgan.  Sometimes it seemed like the elites were playing chess with our lives.  They trained me to jump out of planes and kill people.  I didn’t have anything against the Iraqis.  I wasn’t fighting against them.  I was fighting to get home to my family.  So was I a pawn?  Maybe.  But if it weren’t for the higher-ranking people in the military who saw potential in me, and encouraged me to get an education and become a leader, I’d never even have achieved broad enough horizons to ask these types of questions.
I was the stereotypical kid from Harlem.  I was a good student until 4th grade, but then I started going down the wrong path.  My friends started making fun of me for raising my hand too much, so I stopped participating in class.  Instead of playing on the playground, I followed my friends and went to steal bikes. I had no direction by the time I finished high school.  So I decided joined the army.  To my surprise, I placed in the 96th percentile on the entrance exam.  My superior officer recommended that I stay late and study for advancement, so I did.  Then he recommended that I go to City College, so I did.  I just finished twenty years of service, and now I want to go to law school.  Sometimes I look back and think that the army took the young years of my life.  But I was going nowhere.  If the army hadn’t taken my youth, I wouldn’t have these older years.
I felt relief when I finally got evicted from my apartment.  I was always behind on my rent, so I spent so much psychic energy worrying about what was going to happen.  It was like waiting for a surgery.  I was just glad it was over with.  I’d rather be homeless.  The worst part of being homeless is that people associate it with craziness.  I have a gym membership.  I go to movies, but mainly so I can get some sleep in the theater.  I’ve never begged though.  If I got hungry enough, I’d rather steal.  There’s something so dehumanizing about putting yourself completely at the mercy of another person.


This picture is from our senior class trip to Disney World. I was much more confident then. I thought I was going to be a business owner. I’d recently gone to regionals in a business plan competition. I’d grown up poor, though. I didn’t even have my own bed until I was 13. So right out of college I was making more money than my father ever made. And I got content. I should have kept my dream alive. But I just went straight out and got a job, then a car payment, then a mortgage, then a family, and pretty soon I had so many obligations that I couldn’t change my path.




One day you wake up and you’re 45 years old. When I was young, I thought I’d be a CEO by now. I thought I’d put in 100 hours a week for as long as it took, and nothing would stop me. But then I had a family. And things changed. Expenses grew and I had less time to devote to my career. Recently I’ve been between jobs. I thought I’d have a nice retirement and education fund by now. I thought I’d have peace of mind. But now it’s starting to look like I’m going to have to work until I die at my desk.




I graduated college early because I was eager to get into the real world, but the job search is tougher than I imagined. I think people are afraid to hire me because I’m young. I’ve probably applied to over two hundred jobs. I’ve found that for every ten applications, I get one call back. And for every five call backs, I get one in-person interview. I’ve had seven of those so far.Do you wish you hadn’t graduated early?I try not to think about it. I could apply to ten more jobs in the time I spent thinking about that.




We first met at a café in the West Village, and I was completely taken by her.  But the next day I had to leave for a six-week trip to Afghanistan.  Soon after I arrived, I bought her a traditional Afghan locket that holds a small prayer.   Instead of a prayer, I wrote a little poem, and stuffed it inside.  It said: ‘Mountains and months away, and I’m still haunted by one afternoon in New York.’




I used to be 300 lbs. I thought that when I lost all the weight, a light switch would suddenly flip on and I’d be driven and inspired. But the self-judgment just shifted. Sometimes when I’m jogging, I’ll see a woman who is fitter than me, and I’ll think: ‘No matter how much I run, I’ll never look like that.’ It’s the same voice in my head as before. Only difference is now I’m better at telling it to shut the fuck up.




Alopecia is a weird disease to wrap your head around.  It causes your immune system to turn against your body, and your hair falls out.   I used to have a big blond fro that was a big part of my identity.  It was hard to not get depressed when it disappeared.  I started to think: ‘What value do I have if even my body doesn’t like itself?’  As I lost more and more hair, I kept trying to comb my remaining hair over my bald spots.  Eventually I had to embrace it.  On my 20th birthday, I decided that instead of having a bunch of little bald spots that I don’t like, I'm going to give myself one big one that I do like.




I'm taking a break from setting goals."




I grew up very religious, and I was taught to think that people with alternative lifestyles were just ‘confused.’  But now it seems to me that gender and sexuality are so bendable and flexible.  I’ve been going to a lot of poetry readings lately, and people present themselves in such raw forms.  And they don’t seem confused at all.  They are being so honest and transparent in their poetry.  How are you supposed to object and say that ‘who they are’ is wrong?




I was 16 when my girlfriend got pregnant. We went to the abortion clinic on 59th Street. We filled out the papers and everything. Then right before we were called back, we looked at each other, and said: ‘Let’s get out of here.’




My mom was driving me home from school when I told her that my girlfriend was pregnant. She’s a taxi driver, so we were in her yellow cab. My whole body was hot because I was so nervous. When I finally told her, she pulled over to the side of the road, slapped me across the chest, and said: ‘Don’t ask me for shit anymore! It’s your time to become a man.’




I used to think I was just ‘go with the flow.’ Now I’m realizing that I can’t make a decision. But mainly just with small stuff. I can be decisive about important things, I think. Maybe.




I like to organize clubs. I’ve started three of them. The first one is called the SWANK Club, which stands for Second Wives And No Kids. That one is self-explanatory. After that, I started the ‘M’ Club. That one is all women with names that start with ‘M.’ Right now it’s me, Marilyn, Mary, and Maureen. We meet on Mondays and go to restaurants that start with ‘M.’ Then there’s the Adventure Club. I started that one with my friend Bonnie because she couldn’t be in the SWANK Club or the ‘M’ Club.




I’ve spent my life trying to undo habits—especially habits of thinking. They narrow your interaction with the world. They’re the phrases that come easily to your mind, like: ‘I know what I think,’ or ‘I know what I like,’ or ‘I know what’s going to happen today.’ If you just replace ‘know’ with ‘don’t know,’ then you start to move into the unknown. And that’s where the interesting stuff happens.




I fell in love with the first girl I dated. Then one day she told me: "If you were a boy, this would be perfect.'"




She died three months ago. She seemed to be feeling better, but suddenly she had a couple bad seizures at home and didn’t recover. I don’t know if it was an infection, or if the cancer had gotten to her brain. I wish I had done an autopsy. Because now I’ll never know.Why do you need to know?My psychiatrist asked me the same thing. He said he wanted to give me a pill so I wouldn’t obsess so much over Ellen’s death. I told him I don’t want a pill. I want an answer.




My happiest memory was the first long road trip we took together. We drove to Nova Scotia. There were three of us—Ellen, me, and her son from a previous marriage. Our Volvo broke down and we had to wait three days for parts. It was pouring down rain the whole time, but we found a friendly fisherman who helped us forage for clams and lobster and seaweed. When we were lying in the tent at night, her son said to me: ‘I didn’t like you at first. But I like you now.’




Her mother had breast cancer so she had a mammogram every six months. All of them came back clear. Then one morning a nodule just popped to the surface. We thought our dog had maybe jumped on her and caused a bruise. The doctor didn’t think a malignant tumor could grow that fast, but he did a biopsy anyway. He said he saw a ‘strange shadow.’ It turned out to be metaplastic cancer meaning that the cells continually change and it’s almost impossible to treat. The survival rate was something like .05 percent. When I started to read the literature about it, I was crushed. I’m naturally a very cynical and pessimistic person. But I wanted to give her hope, so I did all the research I could. And I ended up giving myself hope as well.




I'm not trying to get into a deep conversation right now. I'm more paint and less talk."




I’ve been going through chemo for six months now. Sometimes I’ll come home from the hospital and I won’t even want to look in the mirror. I feel disfigured. I’ll have drains attached to me that he has to help measure and adjust. We’ve been together for a long time. When something like this happens, you find out what you’ve been working for all those years.




I take secret iPhone photos of awkward situations so I can paint them later."




This is tougher than the Marine Corps."




Today in microfashion




I was an international relations major. I was thinking about going into government, but the more I learned about bureaucracy, the more I realized I'd be better off just writing political songs."




Sometimes we play a game called Bracelets. You put pillows on the ground, sit on them, then play with bracelets."




I’m OK now, because we’re speaking in generalities, but if you were to ask me about anything specific, like names or dates, I wouldn’t be able to remember them. My mother had it too. It was ten years of her not knowing who anybody was. And I don’t want to be remembered like that. That’s why I’m sitting here alone. I used to have a lot of friends, but I’ve withdrawn from all of them. Group situations are especially hard because I can’t steer the conversation toward something I can remember. And when I do get stuck, it’s more embarrassing. So I’ve missed weddings. I’ve stopped returning calls. I do have one friend who won’t give up on me. He calls me from Florida. And if I’m trying to tell him about a bridge, he’ll list off every bridge in New York City until I remember the one that I’m trying to talk about.




I tried to fight it at first. I told myself it was all in my mind. I went to experimental trials. I did mental exercises. But none of it worked. If you tell me a name, I’ll forget it in five minutes. One minute, actually. They’ve got a few medicines but the effects are negligible. So I don’t even bother with the doctor. I read as much as I can so I can hold onto words and spelling for as long as possible. But other than that, there’s nothing left to do but wait."




I'm going to a birthday party."




I'm the muscle."




We grew up poor. We were on every form of government assistance. I grew up in a world where I could never predict what would happen or when it would happen. It was chaos all the time. I did all I could to get out. I made good grades. I went to college. But my mother and sister are still there—working minimum wage jobs, smoking a lot of weed, and making the same mistakes over and over again. There’s no recognition of a pattern. I finally decided that I’m happier when I avoid contact. I don’t enjoy talking to them on the phone. I don’t enjoy visiting. They are both so miserable in their own lives, and it brings me down, so I just stay away. I guess my mother tried in her own way. But that’s not enough for me."




My mom passed away when I was 9, and I didn’t really take her last years very seriously. Most of the time when we went to visit her at the hospital, I thought it was boring, so I’d just go in the other room and watch cartoons. It sounds stupid, but I never knew she was dying because she promised me we’d go fishing.




I'm #1 on Google!"




I was just telling her about how her mother and I used to come to these games in the early 80’s. We lost her to a drunk driver five years ago. She really held the household together, so we’re still struggling without her. I think I’m still in shock from that day. She was the one that got the call. I was in the kitchen getting ready for work at 5 AM, and I suddenly I hear her screaming from her room: ‘Mommy’s dead! Mommy’s dead! Mommy’s dead!’




He lets us eat more dessert than mom does."




I’m trying to beat cancer for the fifth time. The first time was in 1997, and the doctor told me that I’d only live for six months. I’ve had it in my armpit, my knee, my back, and twice in my groin. Life keeps throwing me curveballs. I keep hitting them.




One time I hit a home run. The pitcher threw the ball, well, the pitcher was my dad, so my dad threw the ball and I hit it all the way to the yellow pole, which means it was a home run. I’m not sure if we won the game or not because we don’t keep score.




This is the first time we've been away from her newborn sister."




I need a dog."




I’ve spent the last 32 years studying the evolution of nine types of fish from the Embiotocidae family in the northern Pacific. I think it’s about time to retire.What will you do when you retire?Probably study a new type of fish in a different place.




I just have this phone because I like small phones. It’s not really a good symbol of conservation. Conservation isn’t some huge sacrifice. It doesn’t mean you can’t have nice things. I’ve got a nice flat screen TV at home, great furniture, a sauna, sporting goods, and all the clothes I can wear. Conservation just means that you aren’t constantly getting rid of perfectly good stuff to replace it with stuff that you don’t need. A perfect table is perfect for hundreds of years. You don’t need a new one every couple years. Our culture is called ‘materialistic,’ but that’s not even correct, because ‘materialism’ implies that we value our possessions. And we don’t. We get rid of them, then we destroy Africa to get more shit that nobody needs. There’s no more pressing problem right now than the depletion of the earth. The earth can tolerate a lot of punishment, but if there isn’t a change in the way we consume, there is no way it can survive. We will gladly give money help people in need. But we can’t equate the act of conservation with helping billions of people for generations to come.




I’m the assistant manager at a nice restaurant. I’m happy with my job, but I work thirteen hours a day and I’m not able to save a lot of money. My wife is a beautiful woman, and sometimes I feel guilty that she chose me. I feel a lot of responsibility for some of the stress she's under. She could have been with a much wealthier man. Instead she’s having to worry about whether we have enough money to have kids.




My older brother died of AIDS in 1990. He lived with me during his last four years and I took care of him. It was hard for him because he was so proud. He wouldn’t let me wheel him outside because he didn’t want people to see him. He didn’t want to let me feed him. If he fell down, he wouldn’t call for me. He was like that even when we were kids. One time when he was ten years old, he fell on the street and cut his arm open on a piece of glass. He had to go to the hospital to get stitches, and I cried about it more than he did. But toward the end of his life, late at night, I’d hear him crying in the bathroom. The first time it happened I knocked on the door. But he wiped his eyes and acted like nothing was wrong. So after that I didn’t knock any more.




I stay out until midnight every night because I don’t want to go home. We had a good marriage for 17 or 18 years, but then he started becoming frightened and paranoid. He began to think that people were watching him. Over the years it has gotten worse and worse. He let all my parakeets loose last March. Then he sold all my jewelry and furniture and artwork. Then in November he killed my dog. She was an old Rottweiler. She wasn’t in the best health but she certainly wasn’t dying. He just called me at the theater and said: ‘I took your dog to the hospital. She’s dead.’ Part of me feels sorry for him because he’s so broken, but the cruelty is overwhelming. I just keep thinking about how scared my dog must have been.




Nepal is my home, and my family and community are there. The country needs educated people like me to rebuild, but there isn’t much opportunity for those who return. The recent earthquake made me very sad that I’m not there. But then again, a part of me was happy I’m not.




America seemed a lot easier when I was looking at it from Honduras."




We’d been together for a couple years. One night I asked him if he ever thought about our future together, and he said ‘not really.’ So we broke up. He started dating someone new. I unfollowed him on Instagram and Twitter and Facebook. The other day he came over for the first time in months and fixed my remote control. So I started following him again. When he got the notification, he asked me why I had unfollowed him in the first place. I didn’t know how to say: ‘Because it hurts to see pictures of you being happy without me.’
I'm homosexual and I'm afraid about what my future will be and that people won't like me."




‘HONY: Stories’ is being released on October 13th, which is just over three months away! The first book represented HONY during its teenage years. Now HONY is a fully formed adult—with less acne, a full beard, and that embarrassing misdemeanor charge from Spring Break expunged from our record. ‘HONY: Stories’ will be filled with the quotes that have come to define the blog in the last few years. These were largely absent from the first book, not because I chose to exclude them, but because they didn’t quite exist yet. Lastly, at 432 pages, ‘HONY: Stories’ is 100 pages longer than the first book, with a great deal of exclusive material. And we’ve managed to keep the same price because we are printing quite a few of them. ANYWAY, I was going to post this little reminder after the holiday weekend. But I noticed this morning that Amazon has just marked the book down 48% for some reason, so if you’d like to preorder now, you can get it for $15.70. I’ve been glancing at the price every few days, and it’s always changing, but this is by far the lowest I’ve seen. I’m hoping it will last through the day. (Because of Amazon’s price guarantee, anyone who has already ordered the book will get the same price.) Thanks everyone! And have a great holiday. 

AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND:




I think I focus too much on my career because it has always been my point of control. If I have a conflict with friends, or somebody close to me is sick, I tend to focus all my energy into my job. I think it started in high school when my parents got divorced. I knew I couldn’t control what was happening to my family. But I could control how I did in school. So it’s all I focused on.




I'm an immigrant, I wasn't that great of a student, and I've never met my father. So I've got a lot of people to prove wrong."




I wondered if this would ever happen.




I want to be a doctor." What's the hardest part about being a doctor?" Figuring out what's wrong." How do you do that?" Use a magnifying glass."




It was like walking on eggshells every time I came home. Everything seemed to annoy her. I think she was tired of pretending that she loved me, and she only stopped being angry when I agreed to the divorce. It’s been a year and a half now. Things are less stressful in a lot of ways. But I went alone to the beach with the kids recently. And as I watched them play, I realized that it no longer feels like I'm building something.




I'm a sucker, and she's my only daughter. "Buy me a new bicycle so I can go on rides with you,' she said."




My father is an Egyptian immigrant, and all he ever cared about was our education. He used to print out these huge packets of math problems from the internet. Sometimes they would be 200 pages, and after school he’d make us do them at the kitchen table until midnight. He’d hit us if we got them wrong. One day I got a C on a math quiz, and I thought he was going to kill me, so I ran to the police station. I think he gave up on us that day. Now he just ignores us. I tried to kill myself last year by walking onto a busy highway. I just stood at the edge for thirty minutes until someone from my school told the principal. They put me in a mental hospital for two weeks. My dad didn’t talk to me for a month after I came back. When he finally did, he said: ‘Do you have any idea how much your hospital bill cost?’




I think the peak of acting is when you’re on stage, and completely committed to a character, and not even in the real world. That’s why I decided to be an actor. I thought there’d be a lot of those moments. Instead it’s been a lot of marketing and auditioning and rejection and very few of those moments. I knew it would be hard, and that I’d have to put in a lot of effort without anything bouncing back, but I thought that things would come along occasionally to reenergize me. There hasn’t been much of that. I’m getting close to thirty now, so I began looking hard at going back to school for a more practical degree. But then I got a role that got me excited about acting again. We’ve been rehearsing every night for the past month, and the show just opened two nights ago. Now they’re already saying that we might have to close soon because of low ticket sales.




I'm going to be a big sister!"




We got in a car accident two weeks after we were married. We were driving to Houston in the early morning, and we hit a tractor-trailer. My entire left leg was shattered. She had twelve broken ribs and a punctured lung. I remember how weird it felt, only having been married for two weeks, having to sign papers to approve her emergency invasive surgery. We ended up having to stay in the hospital for two months. They gave us rooms side by side. We ate all our meals together, went to all our rehab together, and every evening before bedtime, we’d wheel around together and visit all the patients who didn’t have any family.




I met my wife on a flight from Chicago to Houston. I was sitting in 3A and she was sitting in 3B. I fly first class all the time because I get free upgrades, but she had one of those bargain basement tickets, so we still have no idea how she got seated in a first class seat. I remember saying ‘howdy’ when she sat down, but for the first part of the flight, I just put in my earplugs and worked on my laptop. I’d already been divorced, so I had no inclination of meeting someone. But when the food was served, we started talking, and I learned that she had a PhD in children’s learning studies. I’m an engineer, so we started talking about statistical models. At the end of the flight, I gave her my email address, and told her: ‘If you’re interested in getting dinner, send me an email.’ When I told my friend about it, he said: ‘You gave her an email address? You’ll never hear from her again!’




I tried drinking some Drano in January because I didn't think anyone would care. I was right about nobody caring, but I threw up the Drano before it could work."




They would always be in the basement, and I’d think: ‘I’m sure it’s fine, they’re my parents.’ But as I grew older, I noticed that a lot of the time, even when we were together, they weren’t ‘quite there.’ And sometimes when I knocked on the bathroom door, I’d hear my mom hurriedly cleaning something up. Then one day I found a crack pipe. I’d say we’ve probably lived in 20 or 25 states because my dad can’t keep a job. We went from houses, to small suburban apartments, to small inner city apartments. They make up for it with how much they care about me, I suppose. They always cook me dinner. They accept who I am. They always tell me they love me. But there’s never any money for art supplies, or gas, or college. And every time they tell me they’re going to do something, they never do it. They’ve told me so many times they were going to visit colleges with me. But it’s never the right time.




I'm under a lot of pressure right now."




We met at camp. We started off as friends. We did archery and rock climbing and art classes together. We each went to the camp dance with a boy, but afterwards we walked around and looked at the stars. Then we joked about kissing. Then we kissed."




One of her teachers told me that she called one of her friends a ‘dog,’ and I was so disappointed that I started crying. I don’t know where she got that from, but it was not from my house. We have never compared people to animals. I think she was trying to impress some other kids that don’t share her soul. We had a long talk. Then I called the other parents and apologized. And we’ve had several play dates since then, and she’s been very kind.




It can be tough dealing with the public every day. There’s such a sense of entitlement. So many people feel like the rules don't apply to them, and they know that if they call up and complain loudly enough, they’ll eventually get their way.




I like playing basketball." What's been your greatest basketball accomplishment?" Five weeks ago I made a shot."




We don't very well speak English yet."




I need to start speaking up when people talk down to me. Every time I keep quiet, I lose a little more confidence.




I’m tired of driving a cab. So I decided to start dressing funky and see what happens.




It’s hard to talk to girls. I try not to look at them as girls, and just look at them as people, but it’s hard. Because they look like girls.




I want to be a fairy when I grow up." What's the best part about being a fairy?" Flying around with your friends."






It was hard growing in the South as a biracial kid without a father. But I had some great male role models. My neighbor was an old school Italian guy named Bernard Monti. He let me be part of his family. I could walk right into his house after school without even knocking. One day when I was in 6th grade, I came into his house crying because an 8th grader across the street had called my mom a nigger lover. Mr. Monti told me that I was teaching the kid to disrespect me. He told me to go back across the street and do what I had to do. So I did. And I got my ass beat. But the kid never picked on me again.





My father was pretty much non-existent after the age of seven. He’d call occasionally, and say things like ‘I’m going to visit more,’ or ‘I’m going to help you with this,’ but he’d never follow through. He started a new family, and I think he convinced himself that he wasn’t needed because my mother would take good care of us. The last time I talked with him was the age of 18. I called him from my freshman dorm room at college, and I said: ‘Either be a father, or leave me alone, and stop holding me back.’ He said: ‘I can’t be that person for you.’ So I never spoke with him after that. I never reached out because I didn’t want to give him the satisfaction of knowing I’d turned out OK despite his decisions. When he died, I realized that we’d both been too proud to start a relationship. I should have swallowed my pride and been the bigger man.




I told the older one that he could take karate lessons, but when I did research, I found out that it was $150 week. That was more than we could afford. But I paid it anyway because I made a commitment. And if I break a promise, I’m teaching them that they can break a promise too. I want them to know that my ‘yes’ means ‘yes,’ and my ‘no’ means ‘no.’




I’ve been working on my doctorate for ten years now. I’m learning the hard lesson that the work I do is small. And the further I get down the road, the more I doubt that I have something new to add to the discussion. I try to keep encouraging myself. The other day I wrote in the margin of my notebook: ‘You have something to say!’




I grew up in South Africa. My parents were immigrants from China, and all they do is work. It cost them a lot to send me here to study. After paying for my school, they don’t have much left to spend on themselves or my younger siblings. I feel like I took all the opportunities. And now I’m not sure that I enjoy what I majored in.




Even though the business eventually failed, I view it as a success. My dad was an immigrant from the Dominican Republic. He’d take any job he could get just to keep food on the table. A lot of times our fridge was empty. There were nights when I only had $1 for dinner, and I’d have to eat nothing but Little Debbie Swiss Cake Rolls. There was a hole in our roof, so we actually had pigeons in our house sometimes. So to come from that, and open my own store, and to get to see it thrive for a little bit that means I made it. None of my friends ever did anything like that. Some of them are in jail now. I got to see my mom proud of me. I got to see my grandma proud of me. If the store had survived, that would have been another chapter. But the fact that it existed means that I made it out and I did something.




This used to be my store. I put everything I had into it. I dropped out of school when I was 16, and by working two jobs, I managed to save about $90,000. I spent it all on this store. I was the bookkeeper, the buyer, and the sales guy. We even made a profit our first year. I think it was $213, but it was a profit. The happiest moment for me was when we were signing the papers and giving the landlord our deposit. Everything felt so real. The saddest moment was three years later, when that same man was standing over us while we packed our stuff, and he was telling us that we only had an hour to get out.


Let me hide the cane. It's only temporary."




He learned to hum before he learned to speak. In fact, his love of music has really helped him get past his speech delay, because he wants so bad to sing along with every song that comes on.




He probably won’t answer you. He has a speech delay. He talks plenty at home, but strangers have a hard time understanding him. So he’s learned that if he just smiles a lot, people will like him, and they won’t know that he has trouble speaking.




When I got Student of The Month, Ms. Gabriel gave me two certificates, one pencil, and a cupcake. Then she told me that I didn’t have to do any homework that week, but I told her: ‘I want to do my homework!’




She keeps my spirit from getting heavy because she's always bringing out the little girl out in me. She’s always getting me to skip, or jump, or do jumping jacks, or laugh at silly jokes.




My husband works in a supermarket and I’m a paralegal. He lives with his aunt and I live with my mother, because we can't afford to live together.




I grew up with my grandmother in the Dominican Republic. One morning, she began to pack my bags and told me that I was going to join my parents in America. I was only six years old, and I’d never left the island, so I didn’t really understand what was happening. I started crying and screaming. She told me not to worry and gave me something to drink. Then I woke up in America.




What’s your favorite thing about your mom?She always says ‘You can do it.’ But in Spanish.




I’m single, unemployed, and late middle-aged. But I don’t really get sad. I just don’t think sadness is in my brain chemistry. When I go home to my apartment, I’ve got a faucet that releases both hot and cold water. You know how many billions of people don’t even have clean drinking water? And I’ve got two types of clean water: hot and cold.




There were 50 of us on a fishing boat when the engine broke in the middle of the ocean.




What’s your favorite thing about your Mom?She’s better at waking me up than Dad. Dad is way too cheerful in the morning.




She has such a deep joy for life. She’s the one that taught me that no matter what happens, we’ll be just fine. I’ve always been so serious and ambitious, but I haven’t always been able to live up to my own standards. I wanted to get into a top law school, but that didn’t happen I went to a fourth tier law school instead. Then after I graduated, I kept failing to get the job I wanted. But after each setback, she always gave me the sense that no matter what happened, we’d be just fine. She taught me that early on. So when her health problems started, I knew that even if she’s never able to walk again—we’ll be just fine.




I’ve been having nerve issues, and this past year it’s gotten so bad that it hurts too much for me to walk. It was completely unexpected. I’ve always been such an optimistic person, but now I’m fighting with depression. He’s doing everything he can to take my mind off of it. We’re not sure if I’m going to get better, but he’s planning a backpacking tour through Europe for when I do. And I told him that I didn’t think I could handle a visit to New York right now, but he told me that he’d push me around the whole city. And he has. And whenever I feel particularly down, he tells me that he’s not going anywhere, and how happy he is that he married me. Not long ago I had a particularly rough period, and when I was at one of my lowest moments, he asked if we could renew our vows.




Today in microfashion




My parents are fundamentalist Christians. I love them, but I have to lie to them a lot about my life.




Seven years ago, I was sitting on the ledge of a thirteenth floor window. I’d tried to quit drinking so many times but I couldn’t do it, and I’d finally given up. My mind was racing through all the shameful things I’d done, and I kept hearing this voice saying: ‘Jump you piece of shit. Jump you piece of shit.’ So I put my hands over my ears and started rocking back and forth on the window ledge. Suddenly I heard this small, still voice: ‘Say a prayer,’ it said. And I didn’t want to hear it. It was kind of like your mother knocking on the door while you’re watching porn. But then I heard it again: ‘Say a prayer.’ So I started praying, and I totally surrendered, and I felt an evil presence leave me. And I just kept saying: ‘I can’t believe you still love me. I can’t believe you still love me.’ Then I cleaned up my room, threw away my baggies of coke, took a shower, and went to work.




I think if you want to accomplish something big, you need to be a bit shaken. And we’ve gotten a bit too comfortable here. So we’re going to move to California and see what happens.




I started working at the furniture store when I was 27. I had two children, and we’d been living in a shelter, so I was excited to start work again. But it’s been five years now. I work in the Pots and Plants Department. I make sure everything stays clean and stocked and I help people can find what they’re looking for. There’s always work to be done, so I do feel like I accomplish something every day. But I just don’t feel like I’m contributing very much to society. I’d like to try something else, but it’s hard to start something new. I come home exhausted, I get to spend a little time with my kids, and then the day is over.




I'm not his father. I'm his friend." How'd you meet?" I love his mother. And it was a package deal."




I think I need to learn discipline. I don’t think I ever learned it when I was young. I had one of those typical inner city stories. My mom was addicted to drugs so I had no bedtime. No wake-up time. No chores to do. Those sound like simple things but they aren’t. I’ve seen a lot of people in college who are able to work really hard at something even if they aren’t very interested in the subject, and I think that’s because they learned discipline.




Growing up in Grenada, we had a little black-and-white TV that only got one channel. We’d see shows about America and everything looked so perfect. Every few months, one of my American uncles would visit and they’d always show off and bring expensive gifts. So when I finally got a chance to come here, I was excited. I landed at night and took a taxi to my uncle’s house in Brooklyn. The next morning I walked outside and there was dog shit and garbage everywhere. I hadn’t seen any of that on the television.




My wife is my anchor. I didn’t fully appreciate it until I was older. I was so focused on my own course, I didn’t realize that this place of solace was developing around me. And I had very little to do with it.




I was twenty years old when I had him. I thought: ‘I haven’t even figured things out for myself yet. How am I going to figure them out for someone else?’




This is the cleanest bathroom in New York City."




I was visiting from California when I met him. I was with a bridal shower at a bar on Long Island, and he seemed so different than all the other guys there. We danced for hours, and then we went outside and sat on a dock and talked all night long. We spent the next three weeks together before I returned home. Soon he came out to visit me, and when he left, believe it or not, he put a Humans of New York book on my bed with a letter inside that said: ‘I want you to come to New York.’ So I did, and we dated for a year. Then he dumped me on Valentine’s Day.




We prepare for people's worst days."




My wife and I are trying to cut back on the language at home. Something fell off the kitchen table last week, and my four year old daughter said: "Oh shit!' So not only has she learned to cuss, but she's learned to cuss correctly."




My wife thinks she's The Chief."




I don’t want to say I was depressed, but my life has been pretty humdrum for the past eighteen years. Every day I’d wake up, eat breakfast, go to church, go back home—always the same thing. But now I’ve met this woman and suddenly I feel young again. I can’t concentrate. All I want to do is be with her. I used to eat whenever I wanted, but now I can get by on just a banana. I’m even trying to improve myself. I’m doing pushups in the morning. Can you believe that? Four herniated discs in my back, and I’m doing pushups every morning.


Today in microfashion




Can we make this quick? They're serving tea at church."




I’ve got a seven month old daughter at home. I want to be her favorite so I’m always trying to make her smile. I might slip her a little ice cream when mom’s not looking. Then I pretend like I don’t know why she’s having trouble falling asleep.




I don’t miss my old life as much as I feared I would.




We were married for eleven years.How did you meet?I’m a carpenter and she needed some work done. I spent four months working on her house: I added two closets, redid the floors, and painted the place. On the last day, I was about to leave, and I said to her: ‘You know, I was thinking about asking you to dinner.’ And she leaned over and kissed me.




My wife died five years ago today. She went in the hospital on May 16th. My sister is a nurse, and when she heard it was meningitis, she told me to prepare myself. She spent 24 days in a coma. I brought a radio with me and I sang to her and read her books all day long. On June 8th, she woke up from her coma, and all she said was: I’m worried. I told her not to worry, and that I’d see her in the morning. But at 4 AM they called me at home and told me she didn’t make it.




My youngest son was fooling around with some friends, and somebody got called a ‘pussy,’ and then somebody got shot. And now he’s doing 20 years. That’s my baby boy. I always told him it would happen. I used to come home from work late at night, and he’d be gone, and I’d find him in the streets and chase him back inside. After he went to prison, I asked him: ‘What more could I have done?’ And he started crying and said: ‘Nothing, Dad. You raised me right. Everything you told me was right. There was nothing you could have done.’


As a young queer kid, I always chose the female characters in fighting games. I think it was my way of being subversive before I knew what it meant to be subversive."




I got in trouble in Spanish class for humping the wall."




I’ve got lots of ideas for inventions so I’m going to be a millionaire.What sort of inventions?Flying shoes. A Hoverboard. A freeze ray. A robot of Michael Jordan. A robot of me. And a big robot that’s two million feet tall that I can live in. That’s it for now.




I went to Coney Island and went on a ride that went round and round and upside down and I wasn't scared."




We met at one of those "woo woo' New Age conferences. I think it was during a workshop about communicating with animals. I mean, don't get me wrong I love animals. But this took it a little too far."




We met on a dating site twelve years ago. I sent her a message saying: "I want to let you know up front that I'm in a wheelchair, because I can't hide it.' And she wrote back: 'Why? Is it bright yellow?'"




My grandparents started this restaurant in 1971 after coming over from Italy. I work as a hostess. My mom’s the manager. My grandmother still comes in every night and makes the sauce.




The word ‘poser’ hits me on a deep personal level. In high school I was called a poser a lot. Like when I first rode a fixed gear bike, or tried to break dance, or dressed punk. Just because I’m interested and passionate about something new doesn’t mean I’m trying to fit in with a certain crowd. It just really bothers me when people try to tell me what I am and what I’m not.




I want to be a mailman so I can let people know when it's their birthday."




I do maintenance in the housing projects. I replace fixtures, do carpentry work, and fix electrical problems. I get a lot of joy from it. I love seeing how happy people get when they see that something is being done. My favorite is when I’ve fixed up an apartment for a new tenant. Sometimes the people moving in have been homeless, and they are so excited to have a home. The kids walk around the apartment with really big eyes, like: ‘We get to live here?’




I’d always wanted to be a teacher, but when my son was born I had to drop out of college and enter the workforce. I was depressed about it for a little while. It felt like my life was in vain. I watched my best friend finish college and become a teacher and a coach, which is exactly what I’d wanted to do. I was stuck working as a carpenter and doing odd jobs. But once my kids began to develop, it started to feel like my life had meaning again. Both of them graduated from college. And both of them are teachers now.




I never expected to be an exterminator. But my sister found a job posting for an exterminator position and they said they’d train me, so I gave it a shot. I was scared at first. But they teach you in training that rats and bugs are just as scared of you as you are of them. They really want nothing to do with you. Well, except for bed bugs. They want to suck your blood.




I changed three times before I left the house."




I’ve been trying to come to terms with my biological father. I didn’t meet him until I was 34, and I was a bit let down. I was hoping that he’d admit to more than he did. He admitted that he’d made a mistake, but he acted like everything was out of his control. He couldn’t admit that he had made a conscious decision to remove himself from the household. But I’ve been reflecting on it lately. I just don’t think my father is able to admit something that he hasn’t come to terms with himself. I’ve been making that a condition of having a relationship, but I’m 40 years old now. I have a family of my own and I’m getting a Masters degree in conflict resolution. I always tell people to love me the way I am or move on. Maybe I should apply the same standard to him.




I told my daughter to wash the dishes, and she called me an alcoholic. It really hurt. I’ve known I was an alcoholic since I was a teenager, but that was the first time that someone else had called me one.




I graduated from Columbia a couple weeks ago. I think I took college too much for granted. I’d do anything to avoid studying. Now I can’t find a job and I’m working as a counselor at a summer camp. It makes me want to go to the library and read a book.




In 1968, I discovered a very eccentric pronunciation of Hebrew blended with the dialect of Provencal. There was only one man remaining who spoke it, so I met him in Monaco and recorded his voice. And I did it all without Google.




I'm not very good at comforting people. They're like: "I'm having a horrible day.' And I'm like: 'Oh.'"




I don't have any big dreams. Back in Croatia, my mother worked in a bread factory and my father was unemployed. So I started working in restaurants as soon as I left high school. I don't know maybe one day I'll open a hostel by the sea."




We met three years ago in Grand Central Station. I got stuck working late so I missed my train and was in a terrible mood. I went to get some food at the bar, and the only stool open was next to him. I asked if anyone was sitting there, and he told me ‘no,’ and helped me take off my coat. A few minutes later, his son came back from a cigarette break, and I was in his seat. All of us spent the next two hours talking. When I left, his son chased me down, handed me his business card, and said: ‘I think my dad really likes you. If you think you might like him too, please send me an email.’




I want to be a policeman." What's the best part about being a policeman?" Fixing the cars and the streets and the trees."




I found her fifteen months ago in a Walmart parking lot in Chico, California. Since then she's been to every state except Florida. Alaska, twice."




What do you want to be when you grow up?" A doctor and a mommy."




I had a ton of fun during the Korean War. There were 10-15 gay soldiers on the base. As long as we weren't seen doing anything, they could't discharge us. So we all rented a hotel room once a month, plastered the wall with Playbills from A Streetcar Named Desire, and had lots of sex."




I'm trying to undo the awful propaganda against rats and pigeons."




He pinches me sometimes."




I’m practicing my lines. I just got off work and I’ve got an all night shoot tonight. I’m playing a goofy senator in a small independent film. I’m 81 now, and I didn’t even begin acting until I was 76. I always wanted to do it since I was a kid, so I thought it was now or never. I’d love to get just one meaty part in a movie.




I’m writing in my journal. When I was in 11th grade, I had an English teacher named Ms. Lois Bricklin who required us to write in a journal every day. Then at the end of each marking period, we were supposed to turn in our journal. For the first two marking periods, I wrote all my entries right before the journal was due, and then backdated them. But for the third marking period, I actually made an effort to do it every day. By the fourth marking period, I was hooked. I haven’t missed a day in over 30 years. It’s like brushing my teeth. I turned 50 in January, so my latest entries have been very reflective. I’ve been questioning whether I’m living the life that I wanted to live.




For two years, I wouldn't get home until after 1 AM. Now I can be a dad again."


My husband died of cancer 18 months ago. But every day I still get to see his smile, his kindness, and his sense of humor."




She had me when she was a teenager. So this is her accomplishment as much as mine."




Why God gave me only girls, only he knows."




I'm an illegal immigrant."




If I sit alone I get a little more money, so I just doodle to keep myself busy."




I grew up in West Harlem where there wasn’t much opportunity. When I got my job with the MTA, suddenly I was making five times more money than I had ever made before. So all I could think about was not wasting the opportunity. Once I worked a whole month straight with no days off. With overtime, I think I clocked 180 hours during a two-week period. I felt like any time that I wasn’t working was time wasted. These days I don't work nearly as much.What caused the change?She broke up with me for awhile.




I wasn’t the first woman he pulled over his garbage truck for.But she was the last.




I've only been playing for three weeks. I had to miss a couple practices already because I tried to catch the ball and it hit me in the face."




I want to play in the NBA. Or be a mortician.Why a mortician?I liked the way that my uncle was dressed at his funeral. And if I’m a mortician when someone in my family passes away, then I can take care of their body. Also my science teacher went on the internet for me and found out that morticians make $54,000 a year.




She knows what I need to hear, and is good at recognizing when I'm willing to hear it."




I hit the game winning shot in the "75 City Junior College Championships."




Today in microfashion




There are days when I can be great at my job and there are days when I can be a great mom. I'm trying to have as many days that I can do both at the same time. And I'm learning to forgive myself on the days that I can't."




I just defended my dissertation."




I can walk around this city and point to 200 or 300 buildings I’ve worked on. Sometimes I go a little overboard with the pointing.




We always let her do her own thing. When she was in first grade, she decided she wanted to go to church. So we drove her there every Sunday morning, dropped her off, and picked her up when the service was done. The church directory was so funny. There were all these family pictures, and then there was the poor little orphan Eileen. She stopped going to church at sixteen. So I guess you can say it worked.




I cried so hard when they called her name that I started choking and my son asked if I needed an ambulance."




She got here, but she got here the hard way. If she’d listened to me in the first place, she’d have gotten here the easy way.




We were living in London. My school year started a couple months before hers ended, so I had to leave early for New York. She was always very supportive of me. She told all her friends at school that her mom was going to Coo-Loom-Byah.




Dad, please don't say anything stupid."




When I was depressed, it felt like I was walking through mud all the time. My head was filled with thoughts like, ‘If my friends knew who I really was, they wouldn’t love me.’ And, ‘What right do I have to exist?’ And, eventually, ‘Why do any of us have the right to exist?’ If people were being kind to me, I wasn’t able to access that kindness. It wouldn’t produce a feeling in me. If a child smiled at me from a stroller, it might lift me up for a millisecond, but then I’d fall back into darkness. Before I was depressed, I could find joy in things so easily. I worked as a gardener, and I learned the calls of the birds so I could tell where they were just by listening. I loved to show new plants and insects to children, and see how excited they’d get. I made a 50th birthday card for my sister, and got strangers from all over the world to write ‘Happy Birthday’ in their language. But during my depression, I couldn’t access any of that joy. I’d try reminding myself that other people had bigger problems. I’d try telling myself to quit being weak, and to snap out of it. But nothing worked.




I’m trying to come back to work after a period of depression. I’ve battled it off-and-on my whole life, but two years ago the wheels just completely came off. I’d just had a wonderful Thanksgiving dinner with my friends, and I went to sleep in a good mood, but then the next day I couldn’t get out of bed. I was still in bed four days later when my boss started calling. The next two years were a battle. I lost my job. I was hospitalized three times. I filled a giant binder with information about depression, where to find programs, and how to appeal your insurance company. I felt like I was fighting for my life. I’d call a hospital that specialized in a certain type of therapy, and they’d tell me they didn’t take my insurance. I’d say: ‘Please help me. I’m dying.’




I'm heading back to the office so I'm trying to walk as slow as possible."




I always wanted kids, but my wife never thought it was the right time. She’s an accountant at a major investment bank. She was the only woman in her position, so she thought if she took time off, she’d fall behind everyone else. She always said: ‘We’ll have kids later.’ Now she’s an account manager, and her job is more secure, but she’s 46 and I think it’s probably too late. A few days ago we were eating breakfast, and a cartoon came on the television, and she said: ‘I wish we’d had a child.’ Then we started talking about adoption a little bit. She seemed unsure, but I’m up for it if she is. Maybe this was God’s way of steering us toward a less fortunate child.


He's always taking me to restaurants that I've never been to and introducing me to foods that I've never tried. The first birthday we ever spent together, he took me to this really unique Japanese restaurant. Then he spilled tea on me." It was a Chankonabe restaurant.  It's the food that sumo wrestlers eat. And it was water, not tea."


I’m not sure what it is about this job, but the chicks love it. I used to wear a suit and tie to work—nothing. Now I get photographed more than The Beatles.




I was retired for a little while. But my wife's "to-do' list got so long, I thought: 'I'm going back to work.'"




My daughter’s greatest quality is her humility. She tries hard to not classify people in her mind. I’ve always tried to teach her that humility is a mediator. It will always be the shortest distance between you and another person.




I've been trying an online dating site, but haven't had much luck. I met a doctor on there recently, and he seemed pretty normal, so I thought that it might finally be working for me. Then the night before our first date, he called me drunk and started saying some weird sexual stuff."




I want to be an astronaut." What's the hardest part about being an astronaut?" Pressing the right buttons at the right time."




I’m trying to raise three children and not lose who I am. I used to be a fashion buyer, and I got a lot of satisfaction from that, but now it’s so easy for life to be all about the kids. They need me all the time, and my whole identity seems to be wrapped up in seeing them learn and grow every day. So I’m trying to do something everyday that’s just for me. It could be as simple as flipping through a fashion magazine in a café. I just want there to be something left of myself when they grow older and leave the house.




I had a rough time in high school. I was in a very deep depression. I’ve always been on the heavy side, so I got bullied a lot because of my size. I didn’t have any friends. There wasn’t a male figure in my life to talk to. Some people cared about me, but I blocked them out of my life. Someone told the school guidance counselor that they'd heard me talking about suicide, so I got sent to the psych hospital for nine days. I was the oldest one there. I met kids who were a lot younger than me, and who’d been through a lot worse things. One of the girls had been raped. The younger kids would come to me for advice, and for the first time I felt like a leader. I left the hospital with a different mindset. I realized that I wasn’t on earth to be helped, but to help others.




I try to volunteer two days a week. It’s really been a reality check for me. You see how difficult it can be to live in a city, and how out-of-control people’s lives can become. I’ll never forget one moment last Christmas. I was helping to serve food, and in walked a very well dressed family with two children. The youngest boy didn’t want to eat, so the mother kept trying to coax food into his mouth, but he’d just tighten his lips. Then I heard the father lean in and whisper: ‘You have to eat, because we have no more food at home.’




I'm trying to find people on my wavelength."




I’m supportive of anything that keeps her focused and moving forward. All I can do is try to clear away as much bullshit as possible so that she can access her future. The older she gets, the less I can control, and the less I can protect her from. It's a bit nerve-wracking. I did get her a Swiss Army Knife last week. Because you never know when you’ll need one of those.




I had a lot of starts and stops. I dropped out of high school. But my dad has always been very supportive. And I think I'm done feeling out of control now. We just signed up to get my GED." And we're going to celebrate with a meatloaf special."




We broke up when she left for the Peace Corps, with the agreement that we’d revisit things when she came back from Mali. But a few days after she got home, she fell seven stories off a roof and died. She actually wrote me a letter from Mali, but it took so long to be delivered that it arrived a few days after she died. She wrote about how her anti-malarial medication was giving her these vivid dreams. In one of her dreams she was trapped in a falling elevator, and she said the last thing she thought about before she hit the ground was me.




What's your greatest struggle right now?" Being somebody. The GED isn't helping much."




I feel much more secure in my current relationship. Everything about my last relationship felt conditional on me measuring up, which magnified my insecurities. There was a tentativeness to everything. It's hard to explain, but it was certainly felt. It could be a slight hesitation in holding hands, or an unwillingness to talk about the future. Or if he did talk about the future, he used tentative pronouns. It was "his' future and not 'our' future."


Dear Brandon,Early last night Lotte suffered a brain hemorrhage, and it became clear that her mounting medical problems and the growing risk of additional complications made the chances of her recovering and leading a life of sound body and mind less and less likely. Out of love for her, Megan and I made the terrible decision to discontinue the artificial support of her life on ECMO. It was the hardest thing we have ever had to do, but we feel comforted knowing that she never suffered, and that we bore all of her pain. Had she lived and become aware of her medical condition we couldn't have continued to do so, and weren't willing to force her into a life of perpetual suffering and struggle. We'll never forget the three magical days we had with our daughter, and though we are grieving profoundly, know that she will be with us forever in spirit. Someday we will tell her siblings about their wonderful older sister Lotte, whom we loved so much.Since Lotte's story has evoked such an outpouring of kindness, I wonder whether you would share the end of the story with your readers. As an image, perhaps you could share this photo of her footprints, which one of the social workers made the day before he surgery. She will walk with us forever.Yours,Adam


All my ex-wives were pains in the ass. And I love every one of them."




We teach that education is a great privilege that can lead anywhere, but sometimes I worry that I might be selling them a dream. So I try to teach them what’s possible, but also what’s real. They need to learn that hard work leads to success. But I also tell them that they might need to be a bit more patient than others. Sometimes they ask hard questions, and I try to answer as honestly as possible. A few weeks ago, I was teaching a lesson about segregation, and one of my students raised his hand. He said: ‘If segregation is over, then why are there only black kids at our school?’




God sends me little moments all day long to say: ‘You’re not alone, brother.’ Just a little while ago, an old hunched-over Chinese lady smiled at me with the greatest warmth in her eyes.And you think that was a message from God?I think that was God.




I tell my class that you can always spot a second grader by how he carries himself. This isn’t first grade anymore. When we have a problem, we aren’t just going to cry about it. We’re going to figure out what we did wrong and how we’re going to fix it. And when we go out in the hallway, we are going to stay controlled, follow directions, and have great posture. Because we want people to know it’s Ms. Washington’s class the moment they see us.




I also want to be a writer. I’m actually working on a book right now. It’s a series. When you’re writing a book, you’ve really got to open your imagination. Your book can’t just be about a mean person who eats a banana and learns a lesson, because that’s boring. There needs to be a lot of different parts. There needs to be a protagonist, an antagonist, and some people that you’re not really sure about because that adds mystery. And you can take inspiration from other writers, but don’t plagiarize. My mom and dad are teachers, and they fail anyone who plagiarizes.




I want to be a wildlife biologist. I really, really, really like animals. I like that lizards have really long tongues, and cheetahs can run really fast, and armadillos have hard shells. I spend a lot of time thinking about what it would be like to not be a human. Like what would it be like to fly? It would also be interesting to not have to go shopping for food, or worry about money. And you could go anywhere you want as long as there weren’t predators nearby. One time my dad brought me some quills from an African Crested Porcupine, and I accidentally broke one of them, and I saw that even though it was hard on the outside, it was soft and spongy on the inside. And it’s been my favorite animal ever since.




The school was founded to find out why boys were having so much trouble in school. We wanted to know where the gaps are. One thing we found is that boys are naturally competitive, so we give them plenty of opportunities to compete. For the youngest kids, we’ve created a storyline where Shredder has kidnapped all the Ninja Turtles, and he’s going to shrink them and eat them in his soup. We call the students Knowledge Ninjas, and the only way for them to save the turtles is to win points. This week they get points for going to tutoring. Next week they get points for taking notes. At the end of every week, when they get enough points, a teacher comes out dressed as a turtle and the kids celebrate like they won the lottery.




My students like pro wrestling, so I try to keep up with it so I can talk to them. And if there’s a new video game that I hear them talking about, I’ll go pick it up. The big one now is NBA 2k. I’ve created a player profile and everything. My player is 7’4. He’s a monster. But anyway, I just want to participate in the conversations they enjoy, because I know there are going to be times when there needs to be a tough conversation. And I want them to know that I cared about them before there was a problem.




I want to be a positive male influence in their lives. We’re big on building foundations. I tell them: ‘There’s not going to be a switch that flips once you become an adult, and suddenly you start acting right. Every decision you make matters. Because once you’re older, you’re going to revert back to the same behavior you have right now. If you have a foundation of rudeness, dishonesty, and not caring, that’s what you’ll fall back on when you’re faced with a challenge. So we need to build a foundation of character.


Brandon,You photographed my wife Megan and me on New Years Eve in 2013, on fifth avenue. We were on our way from the opera to ring in 2014 at the 21 club. When you shared our photo on your site, your caption was that we met in Austria, on a train, in the snow.On Monday Megan gave birth to our daughter Lotte (our first child), who had been diagnosed with a serious congenital heart defect (HLHS). On Thursday she underwent open heart surgery for nine hours. Although the procedure was technically a success, an unexpected complication prevented them from taking off the heart lung bypass in the OR. The surgeon made an unprecedented decision to keep her on ECMO (life support) for a few days to allow her heart to rest, so that they could try again to restart it.She has basically been in stable condition, but over night developed some complications that necessitate trying to start weaning her off the machine today. I have no words to describe the torture we feel as parents, when all we can do is sit by our daughter's beside, trying not to look at the tubes and wires coming out of her open chest, and holding her cold little hand. I had two magical days with Lotte, who before the surgery was basically a normal"  baby. We got to touch her, feed her, change her, and we're so lucky to even see her open her eyes. I'm not a religious person so I've not prayed, but I constantly close my eyes and picture Lotte with her beautiful eyes open. I'm not sure I'll ever see those eyes again, but I'm so thankful that I have them in my mind.I wanted to ask whether you could somehow help us increase awareness of pediatric congenital heart disease, which is sadly not widely known and publicized. It's especially hard for Megan that today is Mother's Day, and perhaps you could share a photo of Lotte on your site. Doing so would not only inform your readers of this important and terrible condition, but help us hear the support of others.Thank you so much.Adam


I think she's going to like horror movies as much as I do. She told me her imaginary friend has a bloody jumprope."




She passed away when we were eleven. Everyone says we look like her. We went to visit our great grandfather before he died, and he was very sick, but when he saw us, he started mouthing: ‘Angie, Angie.’I think I look more like her.I think I do.




Our mother was American and our dad was from Ivory Coast. From the ages of two to five, we went to live with my father’s family in Africa, because he wanted us to have culture and discipline. Our mother kept asking when we were coming home, and my father kept stalling, until one day she got so mad she threw a hammer through the wall. The next day she bought a plane ticket. Here’s a photo from the day she came and got us.




Our mom had a C-section, so we’re not sure who was born first. But I was named first.But I got into Columbia first.Only because she applied first. But I was captain of the fencing team.She was the official captain, but the team still came to me for advice.




I’m trying to go back to college. We took a class trip to the museum recently for my Italian history class. Everyone else in my class is 19 or 20. I felt a little weird.




I used to be the dean of a high school in the South Bronx. I played in a recreational basketball league on the weekends, and some guys on my team decided to give me a shot at this job. I can’t say that I feel like I’m making as much of a difference. There was something very tangible about helping a kid go from an 80 to a 90 on a math test. But I think the change has been good for me. I was only making $36,000 a year back then. And I’ve been forced to grow and learn so much. Hopefully one day I can go back and teach them about the markets. Many kids in the inner city don’t realize how the stock market affects their lives. They think it's some faraway thing, and don’t realize how it relates to the clothes they wear and the phones they use.




I got very lucky. I started working for a family firm right out of high school. I was just doing clerical stuff in the back room at first. But whenever the boss’s kids didn’t show up for work, I’d raise my hand and say: ‘I can do that!’ So I started to be given more and more responsibility. I was one of the only women on the floor back then. The guys wanted to teach me as much as possible, because that meant they could take more breaks. I used to get teased but I didn’t care, because my older sister had been calling me an idiot my whole life. I thought: ‘Yell at me all you want, I’m going to use you for all the knowledge you have.’ Pretty soon, I was yelling right back at them.




My wife had four kids from a previous marriage. I had three. When we first got married, we had seven kids between us under the age of nine. My wife is a better stepmom than I’m a stepdad, but I’m getting better. I’m learning when to keep my mouth shut. Even though I’m super protective of my wife, if one of her children has a disagreement with her, I need to step back a bit. Ultimately I just want everyone to ‘buy in’ to the idea that we’re all on the same team, and that we’re all pulling for each other. Whenever it’s someone’s birthday, we’ll send a group text to all the kids, inviting them to the birthday dinner. It’s such a great feeling to get eight or nine text messages back, saying: ‘I’m in.’




They make it tough for working mothers. I don’t know why they have to schedule all of this stuff during the day. My first grader is playing a hammerhead shark in his class play—but it’s at 11 in the morning. They scheduled the Mother’s Day Tea on a Friday. But they put the Father’s Day Tea on a weekend, of course. The other day my first grader told me how lucky his friend was that his mom didn’t work and could come to everything. That one hurt a little.




My dad doesn’t want me to join the military because I’m his only son. But I’ve watched a lot of movies and cartoons and stuff about the military. It seems cool and I want to be a part of that.




I’m working on my stamina. I’m trying to walk over every bridge in the city. I walked over six big bridges in the past two weeks, and a lot of smaller bridges too. I thought it would be a good way to become a better person and see a lot of bridges.


I always say that I’ve done a life sentence in installments. My behavior funneled me into the criminal justice system at the age of 17. I’ve done three state bids and numerous stints at Rikers. The cycle of recidivism is difficult to break. When you come out of prison, you have nothing: no home, no family, no money, and no job. The only thing you have is your social standing. And if your social standing in jail is perceived as higher than that on the outside, sometimes it’s preferable to go back. In prison, they called me ‘Pops.’ I got privileges. People respected me. I felt valued. When I got out, I had to start over.-Charles is a former client and current program leader at . The Fortune Society's mission is to create a world where all who are incarcerated or formerly incarcerated can become positive, contributing members of society."




My mom left me with my grandparents so she could prepare a way for us in America. But my grandparents passed away, so I came to America before my mother was ready. There were eight of us in one apartment. In my mind at the time, I thought that if I began to misbehave, I’d be sent back home. So one day I got in a fight at school, and when the teacher tried to restrain me, I hit her with a chair. I was only nine years old, but from that moment on, I became a system baby. My mom gave me up and I went to a foster home, then a boy’s home, then jail, then prison. When you go to prison, they make you strip naked, spread your ass cheeks, and cough. I refused to do it. So they beat me and threw me alone into the box. And I remember sitting in there alone, reflecting on my life, and where it had ended up. I started thinking about the other members of my family. My sister was a registered nurse. My grandmother owned two houses. My aunt was a payroll supervisor. My mother worked in advertising. I realized that success was in my DNA. For the first time, I developed a thought that prison was not a place that I belonged.Barry is a current staff member and former client of . The Fortune Society's mission is to create a world where all who are incarcerated or formerly incarcerated can become positive, contributing members of society."




We’re trying to unlearn the years of self-protection that it took to survive in prison. What works in there doesn’t work out here. In prison, vulnerability is considered a weakness. But vulnerability allows you to connect on an emotional level. Without it, you can’t develop skills or build healthy relationships. I want this support group to be a safe place for ex-felons to begin to feel vulnerable again. I want them to learn that they can express vulnerability, and experience the joys and disappointments of other people without getting hurt. If they can’t learn to express their vulnerability in relationships, they will end up back in prison. They’ll become isolated from their families because those relationships were built on deception, instead of trust. They’ll choose to express their vulnerabilities through drug use, or violence. They might even strike back at their boss when they’re reprimanded at work. The goal is to provide them with a safe platform to express their emotions before they’re filled up.Stanley leads a support group for formerly incarcerated individuals sponsored by . The Fortune Society's mission is to create a world where all who are incarcerated or formerly incarcerated can become positive, contributing members of society."




Max has been helping me learn how to rebuild my relationships. I’ve been trying to connect with my 17-year old niece. I don’t even know where to begin. When you’ve been in prison for 32 years, how do you relate to your teenage niece? I completely messed it up. She tried to give me some advice a few days ago, and I viewed it as a challenge and completely blew her off. Max saw that I was upset and asked me what was wrong. I explained the situation. Max helped me realize that my niece was being compassionate and I’d completely shut her down. I had misinterpreted the entire situation. So I immediately asked for permission to leave. I took two different trains out to Queens, knocked on my niece’s door, and gave her a single flower. I told her how sorry I was that I’d hurt her, and she started crying and hugged me. I was able to do that because of Max.I heard this man's story while attending a support group for formerly incarcerated individuals sponsored by . The Fortune Society's mission is to create a world where all who are incarcerated or formerly incarcerated can become positive, contributing members of society."




I killed people, shot people, and robbed people. I’m not blaming society for my problems. These are things that I did. I was sentenced to 32 years to life. When I went to prison, I decided that I was never coming out again. I had to prepare myself for that. I got rid of all my compassion, sympathy, and pity. I had to deal with bruisers every day who might decide to throw a punch at me. So I suppressed all this stuff for three decades. Then oddly enough I was granted parole. Now I’m trying to learn to care again after spending 32 years in prison. Do you know how difficult that is?I heard this man's story while attending a support group for formerly incarcerated individuals sponsored by The Fortune Society. The Fortune Society's mission is to create a world where all who are incarcerated or formerly incarcerated can become positive, contributing members of society."




I hope to be as selfless as my mother. My father died when I was seven months old. She had to raise five kids on her own while working as a nurse, but she made time for all of us. We used to have these days called ‘Mommy Holidays.’ She’d choose a normal school day, wake us up, have us get ready for school, cook breakfast in a hurry, and right before we walked out the door, she’d scream: ‘Mommy Holiday!’ And we'd all skip school and go somewhere fun.




I was too hard on my son because I couldn’t understand why he didn’t love to compete as much as I do.




I tried to prank him one time by putting a tuna fish sandwich in his bedside drawer. But the prank ended up being on both of us because I forgot about it for weeks.




I’ve got a one-month old baby at home. You don’t realize how much your life can change from something so tiny. I knew it would be tough, but I imagined a lot of cooing, and smiles, and lullabies, and quiet evenings staring into her eyes. There’s a lot more projectile vomit and projectile poo than I imagined. I wouldn’t be in the same room with her in this dress.




I'm trying to look at my phone less."




We'd never put her in a home, so we alternate days taking care of her. I watch her two days a week. She's not good at forming new memories, but she can still remember the first twenty years of her life pretty well. So she's living in the world of her youth. She gets scandalized every time a girl walks by us in shorts."




She’s a pit bull. When she wants you to do something, she’s not going to let go until you do it: ‘Comb your hair. Shine your shoes. Change your pants. Wash your hair. Sit up straight.’ Been that way since we were kids. But she kept us out of trouble. The neighborhood we grew up in was like West Side Story without the singing and dancing, so she kept us all in line. My father was General MacArthur’s personal cook and valet. He used to tell us: ‘Nobody likes the general. But everyone respects him.’




We met freshman year in ES142. It was an Engineering By Design class. We were just friends for the next two years. We spent a lot of time studying at the library together, and we ate a lot of lunches together. Then finally I got up the nerve to ask her out to dinner. Because, you know, lunch is just lunch, but dinner means date. So I asked her out to dinner. My heart was in my throat. I felt like I was about to give a class presentation. Then she said: ‘Wait. Are you asking me to go OUT, out. Or just out?’




I'm learning the cries right now. Different cries mean different things. There's the bird cry, which sounds like a squawk and means "I'm hungry.' There's the whimper, which means 'Pay attention to me or I'll let loose.' Then there's the sleepy cry. You don't want to hear that one. Nothing stops sleepy cry but The Boob."




I'm raising a biracial grandson full time. Every time I try to discipline him, he says it's discrimination."




I'm not sure what the score was but we lost the game. The other team was older than us though. They looked like they were ten or something."




We’ve been in the shelter system ever since their father was murdered. We needed his paycheck to pay the rent. We had no choice. He had a good job at the Pepsi factory. We were engaged at the time, and we were about to move upstate. We were even planning to take a trip to Disney World. But when he died, a part of me died. I went into a depression. Everything was moving around me, but I was at a standstill. I didn’t want to do my hair. I didn’t want to be bothered with the kids. We used to go to the park and play, but after their father was killed, we were homebodies. I just wanted to stay at home and cry.This is one of a series of portraits featuring residents and staff of the  Homeless Shelter for Women And Children. In addition to providing programs and services aimed at breaking the cycle of homelessness, Win provides shelter for 4500 people across NYC every night, including 2700 children.




The landlord gave me a deadline of Sunday the 15th. On the 13th, I went to the guidance counselor at my daughter’s school, and she gave me forms for the homeless shelter. My back was against the wall. I didn’t have any other alternatives. Some days it’s OK. But some days I feel helpless and sad. On those days, I think back to the years when everything was going good. My daughter is a blessing. She's been so strong through all of this. If she see’s that I’m sad, she’ll lay with me, hug me, and make sure I’m OK.This is one of a series of portraits featuring residents and staff of the  Homeless Shelter for Women And Children. In addition to providing programs and services aimed at breaking the cycle of homelessness, Win provides shelter for 4500 people across NYC every night, including 2700 children.




It’s hard for a child to live in a shelter. They can’t invite their friends over. They can’t have sleepovers. They can’t have their own space. They can’t go to their room when they’re being punished. There’s no personal time for them to discover themselves without interruption. There’s even confusion toward the word ‘home.’ Sometimes they’ll say ‘I’m going home,’ but then they’ll correct themselves and say, ‘I’m going upstairs.’ We tell them that this is where they are staying while they make plans. This is only their home until they find a real home.This is one of a series of portraits featuring residents and staff of the  Homeless Shelter for Women And Children. In addition to providing programs and services aimed at breaking the cycle of homelessness, Win provides shelter for 4500 people across NYC every night, including 2700 children.




Homelessness can be very confusing for children, and it comes with a lot of misconceptions. We try to untangle that confusion as soon as they arrive: ‘No, you’re not a bum. You don’t live in a cardboard box. You don’t stink. Mom is not a bad person. She isn’t crazy. This is not forever.’ We want to undo some of the trauma of homelessness because we don’t want children to view themselves as homeless for the rest of their lives.This is one of a series of portraits featuring residents and staff of the  Homeless Shelter for Women And Children. In addition to providing programs and services aimed at breaking the cycle of homelessness, Win provides shelter for 4500 people across NYC every night, including 2700 children.




I want to go back to Virginia. We used to live in a house with two floors. My room was upstairs. We could go outside and play whenever we wanted. My friends always came over. Someone else lives there now.This is one of a series of portraits featuring residents and staff of the Win Homeless Shelter for Women And Children. In addition to providing programs and services aimed at breaking the cycle of homelessness, Win provides shelter for 4500 people across NYC every night, including 2700 children.


I want to be a scientist.What’s the best part about being a scientist?Discovering bugs.This is one of a series of portraits featuring residents and staff of the Win Homeless Shelter for Women And Children. In addition to providing programs and services aimed at breaking the cycle of homelessness, Win provides shelter for 4500 people across NYC every night, including 2700 children.


Our building had so many violations that all the residents had to be evicted. Turns out the landlord hadn’t paid the mortgage since 2000. Some of us tried to stay, but it didn’t work. We moved to a hotel room for three days until we ran out of money. At that point we had no choice. So my partner and I ran to City Hall and got married, so that we could live in the shelter together. I never wanted to get married like that. We told ourselves that we’d have another ceremony once things are better.This is one of a series of portraits featuring residents and staff of the  Homeless Shelter for Women And Children. In addition to providing programs and services aimed at breaking the cycle of homelessness, Win provides shelter for 4500 people across NYC every night, including 2700 children.




The landlord told me that he’d hold my stuff for two weeks. But when we went back to the apartment to get our stuff, all of our electronics were gone. And somebody had left the door open. My cat was gone. Her name was Kisses. I’d had her since she was two years old. I used to feed her with a bottle. I still have dreams about her.-This is one of a series of portraits featuring residents and staff of the  Homeless Shelter for Women And Children. In addition to providing programs and services aimed at breaking the cycle of homelessness, Win provides shelter for 4500 people across NYC every night, including 2700 children.




He's taking me to Disney World for my birthday."




While I was in prison, I had a stab wound that wasn’t healing correctly. The stitches weren’t dissolving like they were supposed to, and they were pinching and poking me like plastic needles. But the prison doctor wouldn’t authorize me to go to the hospital. I had to write a grievance about the doctor, just so I could get approved for treatment. When my treatment was finally approved, they did some blood tests on me. The prison doctor called me in his office and said: ‘Do you remember that grievance you wrote about me?’I said, ‘Yes.’He said, ‘You’re HIV positive.’




My mom started dressing me in suits when I was a baby."




I try to take my pain and frustration and turn it into crochet butterflies and cupcakes."




After my mother died, the four of us bounced around in foster care. Luckily we were all able to stay together. After several years of moving around, we eventually found a permanent home. Our new parents were Fidia and Luis Figuereo. I remember the first day we arrived at their house. They were cooking up a storm. I can remember exactly what they were making: rice, yellow beans, and steak. At that point I assumed that it would just be another foster home, but we soon became a family. The Figuereo’s had two kids of their own, so there were six of us total. All the girls were in one room and all the boys were in another room. Do you remember the moment you began to see them as your family?I do. I got in trouble at school one day because I wouldn’t take off my hoodie in class. And I remember Fidia showed up, and I thought: ‘Oh crap. Here comes Mom.’Eric is a current volunteer and former client of the. Founded in 1986, ABC aims to "amplify the voices of defenseless children by combating the debilitating effects of poverty and championing the right of every child to a joyful and nurturing childhood.'




In the early 90’s, we had a brownstone on 91st street where we cared for homeless babies that were HIV positive. In the backyard there was a mural that showed a flock of doves escaping from a cage. Every time one of the babies passed away, we’d paint their name beneath one of the doves. Most of the babies died. But a few of them lived. And Eric is one of the ones who did."  Gretchen Buchenholz heads the . Founded in 1986, ABC aims to "amplify the voices of defenseless children by combating the debilitating effects of poverty and championing the right of every child to a joyful and nurturing childhood.'


I met my husband here while I was visiting as a tourist, and decided to stay in America. I had my children here. I couldn’t bring my children back to Mexico, because my husband is from Honduras, and my family would be torn apart. So I went back and forth on my tourist visa while my children were growing up, but recently something happened. Immigration noticed that I’d been spending too much time in New York, and they refused to let me enter. So I had to cross illegally. It took us twelve days to walk across the border. We walked through the mountains. Every day, four of us would share a can of tuna and some crackers. Now that I’m here, I don’t know what to do. I can’t get a job. I can’t get services. I’m afraid at any minute they will find me and take me from my children.-I met this woman and learned her story at the . ABC is a program devoted to providing a level of safety and structure to NYC families experiencing the turmoil of poverty, including recent immigrants.


Just the other day, I was walking down 116th Street when a big, handsome man walked up and gave me a hug. I’d first met him when he was 7. He was the oldest brother in a family of four who were housed in a nearby shelter. When he came to us, his father had just committed suicide by drinking Clorox in Central Park. His father had been mentally ill, and before he killed himself, he had told the boy that he’d kill him too. So the boy kept having dreams. He kept dreaming that his father was Uncle Scar, and he was coming to kill him. He became obsessed with The Lion King. He stopped going to school. He stopped looking at people. When you approached him, you couldn’t move too quickly, or he’d be terrified. But we started working with him, and he started to improve. We discovered that he was an ace at math. And all these years later, I just ran into him on the street. He was 6 foot 5’ and buttoned up in a suit! He seemed very happy and has a great job at an embassy now.Gretchen Buchenholz heads the . Founded in 1986, ABC aims to "amplify the voices of defenseless children by combating the debilitating effects of poverty and championing the right of every child to a joyful and nurturing childhood.'




I began as an accidental witness. I was running a preschool program, and I went to Church Street for some bureaucratic thing—I needed a piece of paper. And I just happened to walk in the wrong door. And in that room I saw homeless families waiting to be processed. Some were sleeping on plastic chairs. There were babies sleeping on bare mattresses. Some didn’t have diapers. I ran to the store and bought bread, peanut butter, and apple juice for everyone. Then I used the three quarters left in my pocket to call The New York Times and The Red Cross. Ever since then, I’ve been an advocate for the homeless.Gretchen Buchenholz heads the . Founded in 1986, ABC aims to "amplify the voices of defenseless children by combating the debilitating effects of poverty and championing the right of every child to a joyful and nurturing childhood.'




We want to get the children as early as possible. Homeless families are extremely stressed. Often they don’t know what’s coming next. They’re terrified. And that sort of lifestyle doesn’t leave much room for comfort and pleasure and fun. We want to give children a place to be children. And we want to provide their parents with a place to enjoy their children in simple ways: blow bubbles with them, kiss them on the feet, help them put some jam on their toast. While we watch the children, we provide the parents with parenting groups, computer skills, and English classes.Gretchen Buchenholz heads the , which was formed in 1986 to ‘alleviate the suffering of New York City’s children.’ She was first introduced to me as the ‘Steve Jobs of saving lives.’


I’ve been trying the online dating thing, but I’m an outgoing person, so I always imagined meeting someone naturally. I guess I just thought one day someone would sit next to me and strike up a conversation. If somebody walked up to me right now and said, ‘Let’s go explore,’ I’d totally be down for that.




What’s your relationship to each other?You answer.No, you answer.




My story didn’t turn out like I thought. Without going into it, I’ll just say that I’m a lot more alone than I thought I’d be at this point. But I’ve also learned that I’m a lot stronger than I realized, and I’m proud of myself for that. We took a beach trip recently. I got us all packed up, drove us there, and we had a great day all by ourselves. On the ride home, I remember thinking: ‘I got this.’




My brother has a big face."




He just woke up."




This was my hockey team. I was the goalkeeper."




She's a very easy child. I thank God for her every day."




Today in microfashion




I feel good right now. Ever since I left my job in insurance, I’ve written twelve plays and two children’s books. I’ve had my plays performed in Atlanta, Washington DC, San Francisco, and Yale University. My ex-wife and I have become best friends. I apologize all the time for the man I was before I followed my passion, and she comes to my plays and readings. I moved to New York at the age of 65 to take things to the next level. Now I want to see one of my plays on Broadway.




When I was a kid, I’d always wanted to be a writer. I even made a go of it when I was younger. I moved to California in my twenties, and tried to make it work. I almost sold a screenplay. I traveled around a bunch, and worked odd jobs, but by the time I hit my thirties, I said: ‘That’s it.’ And I went into the insurance business. I worked for a wonderful company—the one with the duck. But September 11th really shook me up. A couple days before, I’d flown out of the same airport as one of the hijacked planes. I hadn’t written anything in seventeen years, but I thought: ‘Win, lose, or draw, I’ve got to try this one more time.’ So at the age of 51, I became a writer again.’




I achieved my first goal, which was playing pro soccer. I played for three years in France. Now I’m achieving my second goal, which is to coach kids. My first coaching job was at an elementary school that never had a soccer team before. We lost our first game 2 – 1. But the kids were so excited when we scored our goal that they ran off the field. I had to chase them down and tell them that the game wasn’t over. Then on the bus ride home, everyone was so excited they could barely sit in their seats. When we got back to school, the kids were so happy getting off the bus that their parents thought we’d won the game. That moment was everything to me.




I had a friend ask me to borrow money recently, and then he turned around and acted like it had been a gift. That really hurt me, because I’d given that money from my heart. I actually put a thumbtack on that day in my calendar. That was the day that I decided to narrow my inner circle. Now I focus all my energy on the people who want nothing from me but my time. Mainly my daughter, and the kids that I coach on my soccer team.




Schools have really shifted their focus to testing, and music has really become more of an extracurricular activity. It’s almost treated like a sport. My class used to last almost an hour. Now it’s down to thirty minutes. By the time the kids get seated and settled, we’re almost out of time. It’s a shame, because music helps to teach focus and discipline. You really have to commit to an instrument to master it. There seems to be more of a ‘popcorn mentality’ among students today. As soon as something gets difficult, they’re onto something else.




I’m a consultant, but the clock’s ticking down until retirement. You get 35 years of recognition for doing something, and you see that coming to an end, and it forces you to think about your legacy. I’ll miss the constant feeling of solving problems and adding value. I get that feeling from my family, of course, but I worry about falling out of my routines. I’m afraid I’ll revert back to my twenties, when I was reading a lot but not doing very much. My wife is planning all sorts of hobbies to keep me busy. She intends for me to become an expert at cooking and gardening.




Today in microfashion




I work for the Norwegian Refugee Council. Right now I’m trying to think of ways to create safe public spaces for women and children in developing countries. Our ultimate goal is gender equality. But in some places, women are afraid to go outside. This keeps them from accessing basic services and participating in civic life. The problem needs to be worked on from many different angles. But my background is in architecture and urban planning, so I’m working on improving street lighting, installing urban furniture, and upgrading empty lots.




I’m attending a programmers’ retreat right now. I’m working on an app that will hopefully provide some useful visualizations of how British politicians vote on certain bills. I feel like programming is the closest thing we have to magic. It allows you to create things with words.




I’m just trying to stay in New York. I’ve lived here for six years now, and I’ve been close to going home many times. But every time I think it’s not going to work, an opportunity arises that allows me to keep going. Recently I was at a low point, and I decided to join an acting company in Brooklyn. There are 55 of us. We put on plays, do shows, and make movies. It’s very much a community and we hold each other to a standard. My work ethic is better than it’s been in six years. We rehearse every day, submit a lot of resumes, and go to a lot of auditions. We all have the same goal: we want to stay in New York.




We met 25 years ago in an English class. There are normally four of us together. I’m from Russia. She’s from Azerbaijan. The Moldovan and the Ukrainian couldn’t make it.




Hazel can't have superpowers yet. She too little for me to teach her how to control them."




My mom found this key on the street. It opens a special lock in the Universe that holds extra superpowers.




Recently I've been feeling that "single person thing' where my friends have gotten married and I feel that I don't matter as much in their lives."




It's been a rough couple of weeks, so I made myself a flower crown."




I'm not sure I understand what this is for. But sure."




I love working with my hands. You can actually feel the job being done. And at the end of the day, you can look at what you’ve accomplished. I can walk over this plaza in 30 years and know that I laid these stones."




I’ve worked with this man for over 16 years, and he’s taught me so much about life. He came to this country from Albania as a young man, and he didn’t speak any English. For the last 30 years of his life, he’s worked two jobs so that his children could have the greatest education possible. There’s nothing he wouldn’t do for his family. Before I met him, I wasn’t pushing myself nearly as hard as I could have.




I actually went to the shelter to get another dog, but he’d already been adopted. So I decided to do a lap around the facility before I left, and I saw Engelbert. He had about ten pages of physical problems. His back legs didn’t work. His old owners kept him outside, so his ears were completely frostbitten. And he only had three teeth. So I thought if I didn’t get him, nobody else would.




My family doesn’t like my appearance. They ask me why I can’t look normal.What do you wish they would say?You can dress however you want, because of the person you are.




I think people perceive me as being much bolder than I actually am. I have a lot of trouble with confidence. I’ve dyed my hair since kindergarten. My mother colored my hair as an experiment before trying it on herself, and I liked it so much that I kept doing it, even though she told me not to. Eventually the colors grew wackier and wackier. Then I started wearing off-the-shoulder shirts, and miniskirts, and lots of prints. I was always the different kid. In middle school, I had so much trouble making friends that I tried to dress normally for a while. But that didn’t work either.




It's a breathing and stretching exercise called Qigong. I met a Kung Fu teacher in the park who showed me some techniques. I try to do it for an hour everyday."




We've been friends since we were twelve, but he's always kept me at arm's length." We've had fun." Not the kind of fun I wanted to have."




For those of you who don’t know, my girlfriend Erin runs - which is the place to go if you’re looking for a new friend. Erin really has a heart for older dogs, and there’d be significantly less crying around the apartment if we could help find homes for more of these pups. She’s already matched hundreds of senior dogs with new homes. Many of the dogs had been sitting in shelters for months or even years. It’s a really heartwarming page, and Erin’s doing wonderful things over there, so I’d encourage everyone to follow along. You maybe even find a loyal new companion.




When things are good in my life, everything looks likes a picture. When things are bad in my life, nothing looks like a picture. When I met her, I was taking one hundred or two hundred photographs per day. Now she wants to go back to France, and I’m only taking one or two photographs per day.




I’m waiting for someone who’s always late. He seems to think that his time is more important than mine. He only gets away with it because he’s charming. He’ll probably show up with a bottle of wine and some compliments. But in ten more minutes, that won’t even work.




Back in the 30’s, I used to go to summer camp in Maine. Those were the happiest days of my life. There was a great freedom. I rode horseback, walked in the woods, went swimming, made new friends.What was your happiest moment at camp?One time I won a tennis match and got 50 points for my team. The whole camp was divided into two teams: Green and Tan. And we competed all summer long to see which team could get the most points. And 50 points was a really big deal! To give some perspective you’d only get ten points for riding on the gunnel of a canoe.




I've got a couple friends who are members of the internet. They are complete fiends on that thing. Personally, I have no interest."




I've probably had more than a thousand seizures in my life. I've fallen down everywhere. On the street, the sidewalk, the subway tracks, and down the stairs. I wanted to be a nurse, but I had to drop out of school because the epilepsy took my memory. Anything that I studied at night, I would forget by the next morning. I've got medicine now that keeps the seizures down to once a month, but that stuff messes you up too."




My ex-husband left me on the same day that my sister was killed. That day began a twelve-year spiritual journey for me. I became a tantra teacher, I joined the Peace Corps, I did a bunch of energy work, and now I run a goddess circle. I try to help women release their inner goddess. I believe that if you become more conscious, you’ll be more connected. And if you become more connected, you’ll be more loved. Because we’re all beautiful little stars. I know, I know… I’m such a hippie.




I'd like to write a novel about the future where the earth isn't a dystopian wasteland and teens aren't fighting each other to the death."




I got waitlisted at Fordham Law School. So I put on my older brother's suit and went to the admissions office. I was going to march in, ask for the dean, and say: "I'm here to do whatever it takes to get into this school!' Instead I got nervous and just asked a bunch of questions that I already knew the answer to."




What's your favorite thing about him?" He does the supermarket shopping."


About two years ago today, the final touches were being put on the first HONY book. The book was the culmination of three years of hard work, and I couldn’t be prouder of how it turned out. But in the months and years that followed, the blog has continued to evolve. The interviews have become much deeper. The stories have grown longer and more intimate. And while the first book is a colorful depiction of HONY’s beginnings, it doesn’t fully represent what HONY has become. So I’m very excited to announce that ‘Humans of New York: Stories’ will be published this October. It will be 432 pages of the best material from the past 2.5 years. Additionally, it will feature 100 stories that have never been seen before. I’m putting the finishing touches on the manuscript over the next couple weeks, and am so thrilled to have a book that finally represents what HONY has become. If you’d like to pre-order ‘HONY: Stories,’ you may do so here:AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE:




My mom’s a single mother. She adopted me when she was 40. She always tells me that she had a mid-life crisis, and she got a kid instead of a motorcycle. And I’m forever thankful for that. She's never been too close to her family, so it's always just been the two of us.




There was a time in 8th or 9th grade when I felt really alone. I lived in Virginia at the time and it seemed like I was the only Asian in the county. I was gay. I wasn’t religious. It seemed like I was the only one who didn’t have John 3:16 written on my locker. I joined the marching band and felt like I’d finally found my clique, but then not long afterward my mom told me that we were moving again. It started to feel like I didn’t belong anywhere, and of course my teenage hormones had me wondering if I belonged on earth. Around this time I made the mistake of reading my adoption papers from China. My parents had left me in an alley. They didn’t even bother to bring me to an orphanage.




I was on a trip in Saskatchewan, and I took this baby up a mountain. Boy did she fucking roll! There were trails but I didn’t even use them.




They call me Grandma Techno. I go to electronic music festivals and dance. I can stand up and hold onto this thing and boogie down pretty good. Sometimes the kids help me by propping me up against a barricade."




This is our first time meeting in person. We met on Instagram. I posted a photo of myself with long hair to show how I looked before my cancer treatment, and she commented: ‘I think you look better now!’




I'm generally a quiet person, but I talk way too much when I get nervous. Whenever I meet someone new, I pretty much just say everything I can think of, and hope something will connect."




Believe it or not, I actually found God through becoming an investment banker. During my job search, I had a dream that I was standing in a dry riverbed. There were cracks in the clay and shriveled leaves everywhere. There was a bright light coming down from the sky. It was so bright that I could only stare at the dead leaves on the ground. Then I heard a voice. It said: ‘Why don’t you think I can get you a job on Wall Street?’ Then the light dimmed enough for me to see a huge, dying tree right by the river bed. After I woke up, I googled what it means to dream about trees and cracked clay, but couldn’t find anything. I thought the dream was so clear that it must mean something. Then the next day, my brother sent me a verse from the Bible, it said: ‘Those who trust in the Lord will be like a tree planted by the water.’




My mom grew up in a poor village in Nigeria. Her parents sent her to live with her aunt, who basically treated her like a maid. She said that every day she would pray for her children to be great. Growing up, she’d always address me with the word "great.' When I wanted to be a computer scientist, she’d refer to me as her 'great computer scientist.’ When I decided I'd rather be an engineer, she called me her 'great engineer.’ Then, ‘my great CEO.’




I got assigned to read Breakfast of Champions in my high school English class, and that was it for me. Vonnegut was my author from then on. I was hooked. And because I had the chutzpah of being young, I sent him a letter asking if I could make a documentary on him. And to my surprise, he wrote back and said ‘yes.’ We became such good friends while I was filming that I gave up trying to make an unbiased film. I recently decided to return to the project. I just came from a restaurant that we used to eat at. I drank a martini in his honor.




I didn’t really mind my parents getting divorced. I wasn’t mad at my father or anything. I was just like: ‘Dude, I get it. Relationships end. Just leave.’ My mom actually sent me to therapy because she thought I was handling it too well.




I used to transport coke between Miami and Cuba back in the 80’s. Those were the happiest days of my life. I used to get $6,000 a kilo. I went through millions. But I had to stop because my heart couldn’t take the stress. I was constantly watching my back, and all my friends ended up getting busted or killed. One time we were switching boats about 50 miles off the coast, and a helicopter flew by. I almost had a heart attack. Now I just do hair and makeup for girls at the strip club.


I'm constantly scanning the world for something to worry about."


I want to study physics. My teacher says that physics is the greatest story ever told, and I think it would be cool to add something. But there are also a lot of physicists who spend their whole lives researching, and never discover anything. I’d hate to spend my whole life discovering where not to look.


Jackson lives in a group home. He’s never going to be completely independent, but he does have some independence. He does activities, and does volunteer work, and we pick him up every weekend. He loves to draw. I try to look at his drawings to understand his brain. I wish I could get in his head, even for a few minutes, so I could better understand his world.What do you know about his world?It’s a very cartoony world. He loves the same things now that he loved 20 years ago. He loves Disney characters, and muppets. There’s no war in his world. There’s no financial crisis, or crime, or unemployment. There’s no racism. No rich or poor.What was the hardest part about raising a child with autism?Not being sure if your child loves you.Do you know now?Yes.How?I know that he understands we are important to him. And I know that he understands he is important to us.


We’re all better people because Jackson is in our family. I’ve seen my other son choose his friends based on how they treated his brother. My daughter asked us if she could invite an entire special needs class to her tenth birthday party. My wife and I have become advocates and started charities. But we’ve all been tested too. Everyone is needy, and when you have a special needs child, it’s hard to give everyone the attention they deserve. I wish I could have given my other two children more parenting. And I wish my wife and I had more time to focus on each other. But sometimes we were too busy with Jackson. It could be like crisis mode all the time. I’d be fighting the school board. My wife would be up until 3 AM, every single night, watching videos of Jackson’s therapy, trying to decide what was working. In many ways, all of our worlds revolved around Jackson. And sometimes we didn’t have much left for each other.


My wife and I are divided about whether it was inevitable, or if something caused it, but we do have video of Jackson at 18 months, coming up to the camera and talking. But soon afterward his language stopped developing, and eventually he lost the language skills he already had. He stopped responding to his name. You could even bang pots and pans behind him, and he wouldn’t respond. But when we tested his hearing, it was fine. People would say: ‘Boys develop later.’ Or ‘Don’t worry, my daughter didn’t begin talking until she was three. But we knew it was something more. This was twenty years ago, so the doctors didn’t even know what to tell us. The head of pediatrics at Columbia met with us, and said: ‘Let me do some research on autism and I’ll get back to you.’ We started to worry that Jackson might never progress. Around this time, I overheard some acquaintances worrying that their four-year-old son might be gay. It made me so mad. I thought: ‘Give me a fucking break. You know that your child can grow to be happy, independent, and fall in love. I’d trade anything for that knowledge, and you’re freaking out that your son might be gay.’


I'm afraid if I don't choose a path soon, life will choose one for me."


I’m going to be an astronaut.How do you be an astronaut?You get in the rocketship, then bang it up to space, then you get to do all sorts of activities—like drive. Then if the ship is crashing, you do stuff to make it not crash.


I’m trying to beef up my skills. There’s still too much getting lost between my head and the page. There are a lot of emotions that are very close to each other. I want to be able to show the difference between nervous and tense. Sad and depressed. Thoughtful and wistful.


She always has something exciting planned for us."


When I came out of the closet, everything came out of the closet."


Costume designer.Curator.Professional ballet dancer.Photographer.Designer.Milliner.Retired truck driver.


My mother used to make all my clothes. I never wore pants as a child. My mom would make me poodle skirts in all my favorite colors. Then puberty happened, and for a hot second I wanted to fit in, but as soon as I got to college I went back to the vintage princess I was inside."  and I'm wearing this because of her."


I'm going to be crowned Emperor of New York next Saturday night!" What does the Emperor do?"  it's a charity thing."


Today in microfashion


I'm trying to get back into the workforce."
Today in microfashion


Today in microfashion


Gohe is from Ethiopia and I’m from Bosnia. We were together for four years. We met as international students in Missouri, and we hoped that we’d both find jobs when we graduated, so that we could stay together in America. She found a job, but I didn’t. I sent 150 or 200 applications. I had 35 interviews. 4 or 5 of them went to the third round, but I think my visa status ruined my chances every time. I can’t ask her to come with me to Bosnia. There’s not enough opportunity for her. When it became clear that I would have to go back, she moved out of the apartment to make it easier for us. I went over to her new place yesterday to help her paint some frames. We thought it would be a fun project, but we couldn’t even look at each other or speak. I’m leaving for Bosnia in two days. If I could, I just want to tell her that I love her.


My only memory of my mom is her dying. I remember the doctors were in her room trying to save her. And I remember I was screaming, and my dad was crying, and I kept trying to run into her bedroom, but every time I got to the door, my father would catch me and bring me back to the couch."


Sometimes I hate my name because it always draws attention to me, and I’m not a very social person. My family moved this year from Pennsylvania. I was so scared the first day of school that someone would notice me. I wouldn’t even adjust my seat because I thought it would make a noise. One time I really had to cough, but I held it in. When the teacher started calling attendance, I got really nervous, because every time people learn my name is Beyoncé, somebody starts singing ‘Single Ladies.’ And some did, of course. But the second day of school wasn’t too bad. Because everyone knew my name.


Perhaps the coolest part of 's tour of  was when each student got to choose a college course to attend. I chose to tag along for the Soft and Wearable Robots course. (Because robots.) Here's Jamal demonstrating a wearable robot that will one day help stroke victims compensate for diminished motor skills.


I don’t like that question. Everybody always asks me what I want to do when I grow up, but nobody can tell me what they want to do. Anyway, even if I tell you I want to do something, I'm probably not going to want to do it anymore once I try it. Did you want to be a photographer when you were my age? Didn’t think so.


I was surprised and impressed by the amount of preparation that Harvard put into MHBA’s visit. President Faust greeted us on arrival, and there were speeches by the Dean and Dean of Admissions. The tone of these speeches was very refreshing. While there was a thorough discussion of scholarship options, there was none of: Harvard will consider you. There was a lot of: Please consider Harvard. Dean Khurana happened to walk by while I was taking the previous photograph.It’s difficult to stay on top for 40 years, he explained. Not to mention 400 years. For an organization to remain relevant, there has to be a certain sense of restlessness. For us, that means continuing to grow the circle of ‘who we are.’ Back in the 1700’s, Harvard meant rich white men of a certain religion. Since then, we’ve expanded to include women, different religions, and different ethnicities. If we want to stay relevant and real, we’ve got to continue to grow that circle. If our definition of excellence becomes a zip code or a test score, we’ll become little more than a museum or tourist destination.


Harvard's smaller than I thought it would be."


As I learned in the aftermath of our fundraiser, it's actually not-that-easy to give private money directly to a public school. But we spent some time doing homework, and with some charitable assistance from the creative minds at , the $1.4 million that we raised for  has been set up in the form of a structured grant. Everything is complete, and Ms. Lopez is now able to access and utilize the money for the class trips, summer programs, and scholarships that she envisioned.And since we're on the subject, the first MHBA trip to happened yesterday! I'll be sharing photos from the trip throughout the day, but we'll begin with the one picture where I managed to get everybody in a single frame.


I'm an ex-convict, ex-crackhead, a pastor, and the leader of a program that gives ex-offenders a second chance."


I can see both of our families in him. When I look at his face, I can see my brother, my mother, and her grandmother. It makes me feel like I’m extending something much bigger than myself. It makes me feel powerful.


I came to study in America so that I could improve my English, but I’ve been here for a few months, and I’ve really only spoken to other Brazilians. Believe it or not, this is the first conversation I’ve had in English. The first moment speaking to a new person is very hard. In Brazil, people seem very open to speaking to new people. They make the first moment very easy. But here, the first moment seems much harder. It seems like everyone is in a group, and they only talk to people inside of their group, and I’m not sure how to get in a group. I told myself that I had to come to Central Park and talk to someone today. But I ended up just sitting here.


What was the happiest moment of your life?" I don't think I have one yet but it's probably coming up and it's going to be a surprise."


I invented a country called Manizao. It's between India and China. The president is a girl named Mahava and she lives in a little red house that looks like The White House but it's little and it's red. And there are lots of beaches. My friend lives on one of the beaches. He's a bird but he's also a builder. He lives in a house that he built that is half beach house and half real house. I don't know how he did it, but I think he glued them together. And kinda everywhere you look there is a restaurant. The most popular restaurant is called Savory Hello. Everyone in Manizao loves Savory Hello because they only serve savory things."
The birth went fine. Teela was born early so they took her and put her behind glass under a blue light. For the next couple days, I went back and forth between Marwa’s room and the room where Teela was under the blue light. Eventually Marwa got better to the point where she could sit in a wheelchair, so I pushed her down the hall so she could meet our daughter. We all took a picture together. Later that afternoon we were preparing Marwa for a CT scan, and her sister was helping to take out her hair extensions. Suddenly Marwa sat up really fast, and she looked so scared, like she’d seen a ghost. She fell toward me and I took her in my arms and she started having a seizure. The doctors pulled me away and I started fighting with them, but they wheeled Marwa away to the ICU. They told me it would be fine, and I could go home, but I slept in the waiting room, and that night the doctor called my cellphone and said ‘Come now.’ When I got to the ICU, they told me, ‘We lost her for a bit, and if she comes back now, we don’t know how much of her will come back. It didn’t feel real. It was like the movies. I was standing right over her and her heart rate monitor would go flat, and these two huge men would start hammering her in the chest, and she was so tiny, and her heart would beat for a couple more minutes and then it would go flat again. And then I heard the doctor say ‘Let’s give it one last try.’ And then I heard the doctor say ‘Time of death.’ And then he turned to me and said, ‘We’ll leave you here. Take all the time you need.’ And when they left me alone, I was like a madman. I didn’t know what to do. I started taking photos of her hands, and her feet, and I cut off bits of her hair. And when I walked out of the room I felt so empty. Like I was nothing.


She was young and healthy and we were very relaxed about the birth. We were even discussing having a natural birth at home. Then one evening, shortly before she was due, we were eating at a restaurant and we got a call from the doctor. He told us, ‘Marwa’s platelet count is very low. You need to pack a change of clothes and come to the hospital immediately.’ We went to the hospital right away, and they put her in the bed and hooked her up to all these machines. Nobody seemed worried. Even the doctors didn’t seem worried. But then Marwa said to me: ‘If something happens to me, take care of our daughter.’ And I burst into tears. ‘Don’t say that!’ I told her. ‘Why would you say that?’


My daughter helped me realize how harmful it can be to focus on outcomes. In Egypt, if something happens to the mother, custody of the child goes to the mother's family, and not to the father. I used to be so obsessed with getting custody that I would become physically sick. I was losing my mind. It consumed me so much that I couldn’t even enjoy the time we did have together. I was never present. My mindset wasn’t helping me, my daughter, or the situation.


I’ve become much less goal oriented as I’ve grown older. I spent twelve years dreaming about climbing Mt. Everest. It was all I thought about. During my years of training, I focused all my thoughts on getting to the summit. My self worth, and the meaning of those years, all depended on that one moment of getting to the top. It’s not healthy to be that goal oriented. And Everest is a perfect example why. The weather can change at any moment, and even though you did everything right, and trained the correct amount, you can still fall short. And if you’re thinking of nothing but the final goal—all those years, all that effort, and all the personal growth that you achieved, becomes worthless if you don’t reach the top.


I grew up in a neighborhood with a lot of cops and firefighters, but I decided to be a stock broker instead. It went well at first and I began to make a lot of money. I thought I was going to be rich. But then I made some bad investment decisions and lost it all as quickly as I’d made it. Then September 11th happened. I was working on Wall Street, right near the towers, but I wasn’t the one running into the buildings. I was in an office trying to make some more money for my CEO. And it just really brought into focus that I wasn’t doing anything in my life to help people. So I decided to join the fire department.


I was in the backseat of a Humvee that ran over an IED in Afghanistan. I was thrown out of the vehicle and injured my spine, and was immediately paralyzed from the neck down. One minute you're a strong individual, and the next minute this. But every day I've gotten better. I'm studying finance and real estate, which makes me feel like I've got a purpose. My main motivation now is to set a strong example, especially to other injured veterans."


I was walking through Williamsburg yesterday when I noticed two lines of firemen, standing in salute outside of their station. A man in a wheelchair was passing between them. When I inquired as to the occasion, I learned that it was a common practice for the firehouse to invite wounded veterans to lunch.


It’s my friend’s bridal shower tonight. I bought this piñata and I’m going to fill it with fireworks, chocolate, differently textured condoms—some of which look terrifying, edible underwear, picnic items, shots, calming tea, rock candies, sparklers, and macaroons.


Liquor store opens in two minutes."


My son is 27 and still lives with his mother. He’s battled a bad drug problem, he’s very overweight, and he’s completely dependent on us for money. He went to college, but he just got a psychology degree from a large university, which isn’t very hard to do. And he hasn’t used it to do anything. My daughter, on the other hand, is very self motivated. She has a magnificent job, a great husband, and a great house. They’ve been different for as long as I could remember. Even at a young age, my daughter was always the first one to raise her hand, while my son would never let go of his mother’s leg. When she talks about our son, my wife always says: ‘We must have done something wrong.’ I tell her, ‘No. It’s all genetics.’ They both had the same upbringing. It was random selection. Completely random selection.


We just came from Model UN. We were representing Russia, but we didn't win any awards." What was your biggest accomplishment of the day?" Annoying Chad and Bolivia. We were on a committee with them, but they wouldn't let us have any input, so we voted against our own resolution."


I knew I was spoiled growing up, and that we’d always had money, but I just assumed that my dad made all his money from driving a bread truck. Then a few years ago, I was at my cousin’s wedding in the Bahamas, and some of my cousins got drunk and told me that my father was a huge coke dealer. Then my sister started laughing, and said: ‘You never figured it out?’ Turns out that I was the only one in the family who didn’t know. I didn’t handle it very well. I broke down sobbing, then called my dad and started demanding money. Then I didn’t speak to him for three months. I don’t even think I really cared about the coke. I was more embarrassed that I’d been so naive.


Dave Isay, the founder of , recently won the TED Prize, and stated that his wish was for everyone in the world to record a meaningful interview with a loved one, acquaintance, or even a stranger. StoryCorps released a free app that helps in that process. It makes it super easy to create a great interview by selecting from a list of thought-provoking questions. Some questions I recognized as ones that I also ask. Some I hadn't thought of before, and look forward to trying in the future. The app automatically records, stores, and uploads the interview. If you're a parent or teacher, I think this is such a great tool to create a project around in order to expand the horizons of your children. I'd recommend adding the extra element of using the app to interview a stranger. Engaging a stranger in a meaningful conversation can be very intimidating, and the growth that comes from the exercise can be substantial. I think Dave's mission is a noble one, and I want to encourage everyone to download the StoryCorps app. If nothing else, it can give you ideas for prompts to make your everyday conversations more meaningful. You can get it here:


It’s a mind fuck. You go to audition after audition, and there are one thousand more ‘no’s’ than ‘yes’s.’  And you try to find that one little
thing that you can change that will make all the difference.  ‘Maybe if I
 lose 5 more lbs.’ Or ‘Maybe if I had gone to that school.’  Or ‘Maybe
if I had worked on the lines for 30 more minutes.’  And it’s hard to
step back and realize that it’s not even personal.  It wasn’t about your
 talent.  It’s not that you’re bad or you’re good.
 Most likely, the casting director already had a person in their head
they were looking for—and you weren’t it.  Or even worse, the role had
already been filled, and they were just holding auditions to follow
protocol.  Even when you get chosen for a role, success is so fickle and
 fleeting.  A gig today doesn’t mean a gig tomorrow.  Unless you’re Brad
 Pitt or Will Smith, and you can make your own demands, you’re always
going to be waiting for the approval of someone else.  In order to stay
sane, you’ve got to find other things or people in your life that bring
you value.  You can’t just be that weird actor person.
I had this feeling in acting school that once we got out of the
contained environment of school, and into the real world, everything
would work itself out.  I thought that the people with talent would
naturally rise to the top.  But you learn that the entertainment
industry is also a very contained environment.  You learn how little
talent actually matters.  So much relies on things that are outside
 of your control: what you look like, who you know, what agency
represents you.  And I knew that race would matter, but I didn’t realize
 how much.  I just thought my school wasn’t doing plays that catered to
ethnicities because we didn’t have many people of color.  I thought in
the real world, I’d have more roles to choose from.  But things didn’t
change much in that respect, either.
My statistics class is a real bitch.  If you mess up one step, the whole thing is wrong."
I want to be a ballerina."  What's the best part about being a ballerina?"  Dancing."  What's the hardest part about being a ballerina?"  Dancing in front of people."
I grew up in a village with 500 people in rural China. My parents were rice and vegetable farmers. There wasn’t much education, but the people were very pure and uncomplicated. Everyone talked to each other, and they didn’t think about the outside world very often. But the isolation could be limiting. I had to leave the village when I was eleven to get an education. And recently the village’s only primary school closed because there was no one left to teach. So after I graduate, I’d like to go back and open a school. Then I’d like to open schools all across rural China.


My grandparents aren't religious at all. They told my mother: "You can bring home a white man, a black man, an asian man, or a hispanic man. Just please don't bring home a Chassid. So she brought home a Chassid."
I’m proud to say that my kids’ friends invite me to their parties, because I never judge. I sat down my kids early and told them: ‘It’s OK to get stoned. Just don’t be a stoner. Because stoners are boring.’ And I told them to talk to me first before they smoke, because I’ll get them the good pot. And now that they’re older, they get me even better pot!


I retired six months ago. I moved from five acres in Texas to a small apartment in Harlem, and I just love it. I can do whatever I want, all day long. This morning I explored the Garment District. Right now I’m going home to eat some chicken and waffles with my neighbor. Tonight I’ll probably smoke some pot.


Every time I try to diet, I just miss the excitement of doing something wrong. I’ve got a family now. I can’t do drugs anymore. I can’t drink too much. I can’t stay out late. All I’ve got left is chocolate and steak.


I'm new to my job, I'm new to the city, and I just had my first big cry. It wasn't about anything in particular. But I needed it, it's done, and I feel a lot better."


I feel like I’m on autopilot every day. I go to work, go home, listen to some music, smoke my blunt, and go to sleep. And that’s a scary place to be. Cause I’ve got dreams.


I've been in and out of the hospital for ten days, because my newborn baby is in the ICU. It's been a stressful week. So we're getting a pedicure."


My parents aren’t bad influences or anything, they’re just hardworking people. I’ve seen them cry for me too many times. I got caught last year impersonating a police officer. We bought a fake badge and blank gun and went to Staten Island to rob drug dealers. But one guy fought back and then the real cops came. I’m done with that crowd, though. I changed my phone number. I got the tattoo removed from my face. Once I get the tattoos off my hands, I can join the army.


I'm creating a screenplay from a novel I wrote about making a film."


I had four restaurants, a beautiful family, and a beautiful wife. I was healthy, rich, and successful. But I was unhappy. My success felt like an illusion, and I was so fearful that it would disappear that I began to have panic attacks. I was about to go to a shrink, but my friend convinced me to try Buddhism instead. That was five years ago. Now I chant for an hour and a half every morning. Many of the things that I feared ended up happening: I got involved in some lawsuits, I had to sell my vacation homes, I lost one of my restaurants. But the thing is I’m happier now than I was when I was more successful.


I'm going to be a farmer. I know how to grow two types of crops. One crop is the normal kind. The other kind uses aquaponic systems. We have an aquaponic system in our classroom. It has a one ton tank with nine tilapia fish in it. It used to have ten fish but the biggest one died over Christmas break. His name was Frank. Anyway, the water in the tilapia tank gets filtered into another tank, where we are growing kale, hybrid spinach, and lettuce. Afterward, it gets funneled back into the tilapia tank and starts all over again. Everyday we have to measure nitrate, nitrite, ammonia, and one other thing that I forget the name so let's not mention that one. Anyway, at the end of the year we are going to harvest everything that we grew. Then we're going to make fish tacos."


I came to study design. The Americans in my class are very good at speaking English. So they talk, talk talk. I'm not very good with my English. So I just learn, learn, learn."


I got asked in a job interview to describe the ideal job that I'd create for myself if I had a magic wand. I thought that was the stupidest question. I would never use my magic wand to create a job."


My dad passed away two weeks ago. I couldn't go home because I'm still working on my paperwork."


I'll tell my wife to look for me on the internet."


Many years ago I had a martial arts master from Korea. It was just like in the movies—he’d make me do crazy things like carry buckets of water up flights of stairs. He was very unaccepting of apathy. I was young at the time, so when he’d asked me a question, I’d often answer by shrugging, or saying ‘I don’t know’ or ‘I guess.’ Then one day, he told me: ‘You never give me straight answer. Your life is too complicate. I make simple for you. Do you want to be weak or strong?’I said, ‘Strong.’‘Do you want to be slow or fast?’‘Fast.’‘Do you want to be smart or stupid?’‘Smart.’‘Do you want to be alive or dead?’‘Alive.’‘You shrug one more time, you’ll want to be dead.’


She beautifies my disillusioned brain. She’s like my fairy godmother. For the last fifteen years, she’s called me every morning, and she makes me repeat after her: ‘This is the best day of my life. I’m a genius. I love people and people love me. I never criticize, condemn, or complain. Everyone I meet today is loving and respectful. I love God and God loves me.’


I only wear my own dresses. Whenever I sit, I knit."


I have a very clear memory from just a few weeks after I was born. I was lying in a basket and people were making funny faces at me—like they do to children. And I remember thinking in my head: ‘What stupid creatures.’ Only I didn’t know how to express those thoughts until I got older.


No regrets."
My mom was always the nervous one. She was the worrier. They had fights about how to raise me, because my dad thought I was invincible and that I could do anything. My mother wanted me to understand my limitations, and to know that some things could not be overcome. She wasn’t as exciting as my dad. But she was the one that made sure I took all my medications, and got all my medical supplies, and kept every appointment to get my esophagus stretched. She was the one that always drove me to the hospital, and kept track of my entire medical history so that she could tell it to every new doctor we had. And if that’s not love, I don’t know what is.


After I was born, I was the subject of a 45-minute dissertation at Columbia University. Almost all of my organs were born externally, and had to be sewn into my body. I don’t have a belly button only a scar where my feeding tube used to be. My mother even tells me that she wasn’t sure if I’d ever be able to stand, eat, or drink. But now I can rollerblade. I can do a handstand on my crutches. I’ve got a core group of friends, a girlfriend, a college degree, and I’m helping to manage a radio station at the age of 23.


Big news. We’ve got our first 100% confirmed HONY romance! I photographed Alex about eight months ago while he was rollerblading through midtown. Apparently, after seeing the post on HONY, Jordan sent him a Facebook message saying: I can’t even rollerblade on two legs."  Intrigued by Jordan’s eloquence, Alex arranged a meeting and they spent a day together. They’ve been dating ever since. I was lucky enough to run into them on the street a few days ago, and they told me the entire story. We were even close enough to our original meeting spot to go back and recreate the original photograph.


Seeing The Future


My husband is a dancer and a waiter. I’m an actor and a handyman. We can’t really afford to be following our passions at the same time, so we alternate. Right now it’s his turn. He’s putting on a dance production in North Carolina. So I’m painting a stoop.


We need to improve his dishwashing just a bit. I'd say for every ten times that I wash the dishes, he does them one-and-a-half times. Once completely on his own. And once where he does the rinsing."


A lot of people have a hard time comprehending the concept of a woman who doesn’t want kids. I’m constantly being told that I still have time to change my mind.


I feel like we all have these ‘mirror-neurons’ in our brain that make us take in a little bit of the mood of people around us. If someone is having a bad day, and they look at you, it always makes you feel a little worse. So I try to only play songs that make me happy. Because if I’m not happy, I won’t be able to make anyone else happy. I really just want to add value to people’s day. So I have a policy: If anyone ever asks me to stop playing, I always stop.


Fifteen years ago, I played at the Apollo and got booed off the stage. I’d never been booed before, so it took my ego down a notch. But it ended up being a good thing. Before that moment, I had been so afraid of looking stupid. I’d always been so worried about taking a wrong step that would damage my career or my image. So getting booed off stage was liberating in a way. It made me think: ‘Well, that’s the dumbest I’ll ever look. And I’m still here, I’m still healthy, and I can still make music.’


Why are you wearing a patch?" I don't remember."


It can be tough for a woman in the construction industry. I’m in charge of hiring the subcontractors—electricians, carpenters, roofers, plumbers. Those jobs are overwhelmingly male, so a lot of them don’t like taking orders from a woman. They’ll say ‘yes’ when I tell them to do something, but then they’ll slack off when I’m not watching. So I’ve got to stay on point. I have to demonstrate that I know enough about all of their jobs to know when something isn’t being done correctly.


I’m not sure if the people who came to my Bar Mitzvah were really my friends, or if they just came for the party. But everyone hugged me at the end and told me ‘congratulations,’ so I think that means they were my friends.


She's the reason I don't get high anymore. Well, one of the reasons. The other reason is that I didn't want to get high anymore."


I'm 144 points away from being a chess Grandmaster. It'll probably take me another four or five tournaments to get there. I haven't lost a game in a long time."


After the check came, he told me that he thought we should just be friends. When I started to cry, he said: ‘We can talk about all this later.’ I said: ‘Later? You mean when we’re friends?’


I'm a banker." What was your greatest moment of banking glory?" I discovered a former dictator was laundering money through our bank. So I got him kicked him out."


I haven't felt guilt since I last had a belief system."


I want to make life easier for people in China who have disabilities. I know what it’s like, because I lived in a Chinese orphanage until the age of ten, and I wasn’t able to go to school because I couldn’t walk. But that’s just a small part of who I am. I want to be a diplomat, and travel, and do all sorts of things that have nothing to do with being disabled. I don’t want people to pity me. I don’t want to be another ‘poor her.’ I don’t want to inspire people. ‘Inspiration’ is a word that disabled people hear a lot. And it’s a positive word to you. But to us, it’s patronizing. I’m not living a wonderful life for a disabled person. I’m living a wonderful life, period. This morning I got accepted into the London School of Economics. Now hold on, let me put on some lip gloss before you take the photo.


I'm the tormented impotent husband of a sexually needy wife. I've tried every pill there is, but I haven't orgasmed in three years."


Her mother and I were going through a dark time when we had her, so we named her Sunshine."


I proved that every hypercube of suitable dimension can be edge decomposed by copies of an arbitrary tree."


Spiderman does like this."


I'm trying to get the courage to sing outside of church."


A new kid named Leon came to our school last week!" What do you do when a new kid comes to your school?" We play with him."


I made a painting inspired by a photo that a girl sent me of her masturbating. But my parents are visiting, and I don’t want them to see it. I feel like as an artist I need to express my truest thoughts. But at the same time, hiding those thoughts seems necessary to maintaining normal relationships.


It's our first time out this year."


I just went to the International Children’s Film Festival, and it was all sold out, but one lady had an extra ticket and just gave it to me! Can you believe that? That’s a $13 ticket! It was a Japanese anime film, everything was hand painted. It was just the best. Look at those sunflowers in that window. Aren’t they gorgeous? Photograph me next to them!


When I was six years old, I had a vision where I saw everything that was going to happen in my life. Jesus showed me that my life was going to be very tough, but if I stuck with him, and prayed, and cried when I needed to, and ate lots of chocolate, I'd be OK." Where were you when you had this vision?" At the feet of my foster mother. She was kicking me in the stomach."


I was working as a correction officer at Rikers Island, but I was having money problems. My child support had just been increased, and after all the payments were taken out, nothing was left. I remember getting a check one time for $39. So I began to make some bad decisions. Inside of prison, a single cigarette can sell for $50. Not a pack. A single cigarette. So I started smuggling in contraband and selling it to the prisoners. Pretty soon I had a whole operation going. I did it for years. At times, I was making hundreds of dollars a day. But they caught me. One day I arranged to meet with an inmate’s family to set up a deal, and it ended up being a sting. I went to prison for two years, as an inmate.


Whenever he's feeling stressed about work, I do an imitation of our bulldog's "I want chicken' face."
I lost my flag the other night, so I just went back to all my favorite bars until I found it!"


I wish I’d had more of an instinct for expressing love to my wife when I was younger. It was so much simpler than I realized. It can be as simple as, ‘Honey, I’m going to make myself some coffee, would you like some too?’ Or: ‘Do you need me to help put those groceries away?’


This better not be for a porno. I stopped doing those." OK, Mother. That's enough."


We're going to Grandma and Grandpa's house." What do you do at Grandma and Grandpa's house?" Anything I want."


I've got a wife, a six month old daughter, and a five acre farm outside a tiny town in Vermont with three thousand of the best people in the world. My life is absolutely fucking perfect."


I'm working on a book that encourages people to crossdress."


I have a lot of friends and we're doing an art show where we show everyone our projects!"


I'm not capable of faking enthusiasm for a paycheck."


I worry about going insane. Ever since I was young, I have periods where my thoughts make no sense and I get very impulsive and I hit things or bang my head against the wall. I just need to feel pain. It’s the only thing that pulls me out of my head and calms me down and gives me something to focus on. I think about the number 110 billion a lot. I think that’s the number of planets in the universe, or cells in the body, or grains of sand, or people who’ve ever lived, or one of those things. It makes me realize how unimportant I am. There have been seven times recently where I’ve had a knife to my wrist and I was trying to get the courage to kill myself.


I think it started at an early age. My parents used to joke about how I’d tie up and beat my stuffed animals. They said it was like Disney in bondage. Little did they know how right they were. They’re very religious. My father is the son of a missionary. My parents would always do room searches where they’d go through my stuff and take anything they didn’t agree with, and break any CD’s that they didn’t think were Christian. I tried to hide things behind bookshelves. I even tried to create a hole in my wall. But nothing worked. I remember getting in trouble for leaning up against my friend at church. The youth pastor said we were acting like lesbians, and my mom said I was ruining her reputation. I’ve been on anti-depressants since I was 14, which is the age my parents started taking me to psychiatrists to figure out what was wrong with me.


My parents think I’m here with friends. They’d freak out if they knew I was here alone.Why did you come to New York alone?Well, I’m not exactly alone. I came here to see a guy. He’s…. 55. I met him on the internet. It’s a BDSM thing. Sort of a daddy/daughter thing. He’s at work now. He’s actually got a wife and two kids. I think I’m using this relationship to try to pull myself out of a dark, dark hole. At the very least, it’s the ultimate support system.


Many of you remember Shirley, the 101 year old woman who told us all about her deceased husband Moe, in addition to sharing a handful of other awesome stories. (If you need a refresher, you can watch this video: )Anyway, Shirley has spent the last several months gathering and transcribing Moe's writings into an e-book. The book is called: Congenital Alterable Transmissible Asymmetry: The Spiritual Meaning of Disease and Science."  You can find it here:  Shirley's daughters tell me that she asks two questions everyday: 1) Can we get some bananas that aren't green?" 2) Has Brandon put Moe's book on the internet?" So now we've just got to get Shirley some yellow bananas.


I see myself in my son. I know what it’s like to be in that teenage stage when you feel the need to prove yourself. One day when I was about his age, I was hanging out with some friends after school, and they wanted to go to the mall, but I had to go back to school and work on a project. A few hours later, they all ended up getting arrested for shoplifting. When I got home, my father was crying. He’d gotten a call from one of the boy’s fathers, who told him everything that happened. He told my dad: ‘Barak didn’t get arrested because he went to school.’ My dad dropped to his knees and started hugging me, and telling me that I’d made the smart decision, and that night he took me out to dinner. Today, every one of those friends is either dead or locked up.


I’m trying to make sure my son stays out of trouble. But he just turned 14, and there’s only so much I can control when I’m not around him. I was coming home from work the other day, and he was getting home from school at the same time, and I saw his group of friends try to grab a lady’s purse. I ran across the street, grabbed them, gave the lady back her purse, and said: ‘I’m sorry. These boys used to be my son’s friends. And I’m calling all of their fathers.’ It embarrassed him. But I told him: ‘If I hadn’t done what I did, you’d be in jail.’


My mom left him for my piano teacher. He came to me crying, and I wasn’t very sympathetic, because I think I felt resentful of the pressure he was putting on me. I was a teenager so I wanted to cry on his shoulder, not the other way around.


I never went to college, but I married the managing editor of Playboy, and went to all the parties during the 1960's, so that was an education of sorts. I felt so inadequate because I was just a blue collar girl from Chicago. So I ended up just listening to everyone else's conversations."


My mother became a blind invalid after my brother and sister died, and I had to care for her every day for 27 years. She died in April, and I'm trying to be a new me. In the last two weeks, I went to the opera twice, the Philharmonic twice, and Carnegie Hall three times."


THE GREAT HONY ART MYSTERY:Forgive the sensational title, but I don’t think I’ll get a chance to use it again, so I had to take advantage of the opportunity. Nearly two weeks ago, I posted this picture of Dwight Williams, an artist that I discovered at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. In the caption, Dwight discussed his struggles as an artist. The comment section was initially supportive, but later turned quite divisive, as allegations began to emerge that Dwight was a fraud. People claimed that Dwight merely pretended to work on finished, copied prints, only to sell them as originals. Another person claimed to have purchased Dwight’s work, used an eraser on it, and discovered that it was a shaded over print. Other people posted photos they’d taken of Dwight, several years apart, working on what appeared to be a finished version of the same work. Lastly, some employees at the Met chimed in, claiming it was common knowledge among longtime employees that Dwight sold finished, fraudulent prints to unsuspecting buyers, while claiming they were originals.But to complicate matters, there was also evidence in Dwight’s favor. Before taking his photo, or even telling him about Humans of New York, I’d offered to purchase the print he was working on for $400. Dwight had refused, explaining that the work was not yet finished. Additionally, a few commenters claimed that they had worked with Dwight, and had seen him create a piece from start to finish. Others claimed to know him personally, and vouched for his talent and skill.In light of these conflicting reports, I considered the idea of revisiting Dwight, and presenting him with these accusations, but I decided against it. As with every subject who appears on HONY, Dwight’s story was presented as he told it. There are plenty of sites that trade in embarrassing and exposing people, and I didn’t feel a desire to go down that path in a ruthless search for The Truth. But when Dwight emailed me a few days ago, inviting me to investigate further, I took him up on the offer. In describing what I found, I will couple my own observations with quotes from a statement that Dwight gave me, which is copied in full in the comments. Dwight begins his process with what he calls ghost images, or inochromes, which are extremely faint reproductions of Dwight’s original work. (Documentation of these can be found in the comments). As he explains, the images are so light that at least half or more of the details are invisible and must be drawn again. Dwight does this because, given the time he puts into each drawing, it is economically infeasible to create each work new. He spends 2-3 days adding details to the original ghost images, which, when completed, have more realism, skill, and detail than even the original drawing from which they were taken. Dwight says he is not guiltless. Dwight acknowledges that he tells prospective buyers that he creates his work from scratch. He makes this claim because he believes the creation of an ionochrome to be part of an original, complete process. But Dwight acknowledges that this technical truth may have created a false impression with some buyers. However, he asks that those who have previously purchased his works to please treasure them in the knowledge that he labored greatly to render each and every one of them in as much detail as possible.


I’ve played at nightclubs and concerts all across the Caribbean. I’m only doing this job for survival. I came to America to be famous.


I never got close to my father. We had routines, but not conversations. I think the only way he knew how to express love was to work hard. During the last year of his life, when he was really sick, he played solitaire in his office for six hours a day. My main memory of him is his silhouette reflecting off the wall of the corridor by the light of his computer screen.


Stanley was a year ahead of me growing up. I met him while riding the bus to kindergarten. Here was this older kid who had so much energy and didn’t seem to be afraid of the teachers. All through school he was one step ahead of me. And he always pushed me one step further. We did a lot of drugs together. We did odd jobs together. I remember one time we made 900 paper crepe flowers for a toy company on 23rd and 5th. But then our lives went two different directions. He dropped out of high school and went to California. The first time he came back, we camped in my backyard and smoked cigarettes all night, and he told me all these stories about the hustling he would do. One of his new best friends was Little Joe, from Lou Reed’s ‘Walk on The Wild Side,’ you know: ‘Little Joe never once gave it away / Everybody had to pay and pay.’ Well, Stanley learned to hustle from Little Joe, and I lost touch with him. We reconnected every few years. After one particularly long period of silence, I tracked him down through his sister, and found him on a chain gang in Sarasota, Florida. He’d been sentenced to 18.5 years for drug smuggling. He got Hepatitis C during his time in prison, and seven months after he was released, he died. I spoke to him a few hours before he passed away. He couldn’t talk, but his sister put his phone up to his ear, and I just told him I loved him.
My friend Stanley passed away recently. We grew up together. Something about losing a person who was an essential part of your childhood makes you realize your own vulnerability. Both my parents had passed away already, but that seemed like the natural order of things. After Stanley died, I was telling my daughter stories about the two of us growing up, and I felt how old I seemed in her eyes, and I really felt vulnerable.


They've started firing people. I think my time is coming soon. Once you build the pyramids for them, they want to run the pyramids as cheaply as possible."


My mother passed away when I was very young, and my father passed away when I was eight. I don’t remember my mother, and I only remember little things about my father. He always wore a three-piece suit. He was a florist, so we always had flowers in the house. But everything else, I had to learn from people who knew him. They’d tell me that he loved baseball. They’d tell me he loved color. All the things they told me seemed very bland and abstract. So I was forced to fill in the gaps with my imagination. Then one day, when I was much older, my cousin told me: ‘You are just like Herman, you know. You have the same sensitivity and humor. He’d be so proud of you.’ And it was the greatest compliment I’d ever received in my life. It made me very emotional, because I felt for the first time that I had the approval of my father, and it made me realize that I’d needed that approval.


I said "yes' too much when people asked me to do something for them. So now they don't even ask. They just tell me to do something for them."


I'm Trassh. With two s's." I'm Riottt. With three t's."


I sometimes see a roughness and a bitterness in people who don’t succeed in their dreams, and at times I can start to feel it form in myself. When a friend gets chosen for a part, I know I should be happy for their success. But a lot of times I think: ‘Why them. Why not me?’ I try to be positive, but I think that I'm bottling up a lot of anger. I feel like I’m never being seen or actually looked at. I walk through the city and I feel this tightness and so many times I just want to burst out screaming.


I want to be in musical theater, but it’s getting harder and harder for me to go to auditions. I want to make my parents proud and validate their faith in me, but every time I talk to them, they ask me if I’ve gotten a show yet, and every time I have to tell them ‘no.’ And it’s hard to not feel foolish when you keep trying something and it doesn’t work out. I have a day job to support me while I go to auditions. But now I’m working there more than I’m auditioning, and I’m scared that I’m falling into a routine. I see a lot of people settle into a routine where nothing really upsets them, but nothing really excites them either. And I’m afraid that’s happening to me.
He’s had so many chances. He’s overdosed twelve times. Most people don’t even survive one overdose. We talk pretty openly in our family about how everyone would be better off if my brother was dead. We talk about it as if it’s a small thing. It’s a little more nuanced now, because he has a three year old child. But even the child would be better off without a heroin addict for a father.


My brother’s been a heroin addict on and off. Mostly on. I never see him, but when I do, he acts like we talk all the time, and hits me up for twenty bucks. And I give it to him. Because I never know if it’s going to allow him to eat a meal or have a place to sleep. But I’m sure he spends it all on drugs. At first I was angry. Then for awhile, I was hopeful that he’d change. Now I just try to feel nothing, and the less I see him, the easier that is. My parents have gotten old quick because of him. Mom gets panic attacks and my dad is addicted to Xanax. And we have a protocol in our family, that you always have to text before calling, because otherwise we assume that he’s overdosed again.
We met while working on a City Council campaign in the Bronx when we were in our twenties. He was the campaign manager. I was a volunteer. I think our candidate finished last. At the end of the campaign, we all went out together, and one of the gay volunteers told me: ‘Either you take him, or I’m going to.’ So at the end of the night, I accidentally left my bag in the back of his car, so he'd have to see me again.


I’ve been shy for as long as I can remember. When I was in first grade, all the other kids would play sports during recess, but I’d sit alone and play with sand. I don’t think I was sad because I was a kid. I was probably having fun with my sand. Well, I was probably sad. I was probably sad all the time. But that’s how nerds are born. You spend a lot of time learning things on your own while everyone else is being social.


I’d probably feel more loved and respected if I was better at conversation. When you’re good at conversation, people are always giving you feedback. People listen to you and smile and laugh at what you say. It’s easy to know that you are liked. Because I’m shy, I’m always nervous that people don’t like me. I worry that they think I’m stupid because it might seem like I don’t have anything to say. It’s especially tough in large groups, because then I don’t feel pressured and it’s easier for me to sit back and let other people talk. But then afterwards I feel like I didn’t participate, and I feel even more isolated.


We went to a yoga class on our first date. I'd recommend that to everyone, by the way. There's never been a serial killer who enjoyed yoga. I did the research."


I'm just waiting for summer."


He had a four centimeter tumor removed from the frontal lobe of his brain. He cries a lot now. He never used to cry, but I’ve probably seen him cry twenty times since the surgery. He always says, ‘You’ll never know what’s happening inside of my head.’ He’s still good with my name, but he’s forgotten a lot of others. He tells the same old stories over and over. He’s best at remembering things that happened a long time ago, so I think he clings to those things.


The night before Dad’s brain surgery, he invited about six or seven of his friends over, and he called it The Last Supper. The weird thing is we were sitting at this long wooden table, just like the real thing. Everyone drank a lot. Dad kept talking about dying. He’d act like it was a joke, but then he’d start crying. After dinner, we all watched The Big Lebowski, then everyone went home around 1 AM. He didn’t want to go to sleep after everyone left, so the two of us just sat in the backyard for awhile. We had to be at the hospital at 5 AM. I think he fell asleep at 3:45.


She’s much more empathetic than I am. When our son was very sick with cancer, she had a much better sense for what he was going through. And I relied on that. Because I didn’t know, but I wanted to know.


I’m trying to instill morals in my three year old son, but I don’t want him to be afraid of me. We were shopping over the holidays, and he started to run away from me into the crowd, so I yelled at him. And he started crying when we got home and he told his mom that Daddy yelled at him. And that hurt to see. It’s easy to scream first, especially when you think your child is in danger, because you’re looking for that instant stoppage. But afterwards I always try to get on the ground and explain to him that I was just scared for him.
I met a man who I wanted to be like. He was professional, independent, married. All that ‘Leave It To Beaver’ shit. I was a bit of a loner at the time, so I really latched on to him. We’d play basketball, and bowl, and go to movies. We’d hang out almost every night. But then at some point he disappeared for two months. So I decided to go looking for him. I went to his house, and knocked, and kept ringing the bell, but nobody was answering. Then finally after a few minutes he opened the door, and the house was filled with smoke, and there were two naked chicks behind him, and I liked what I saw. I didn’t go inside right then, but I thought about if for a couple days, and finally decided to go back. I didn’t try crack until I was forty years old. And I only did it because I was lonely and needed acceptance.


I’m a rabbi. But I don’t try to provide any answers. I tell people what tradition says, and if they find meaning in it, and it works for them, then they are welcome to apply it. If not, we’ll look at other possibilities. I think that every generation has a responsibility to create its own understanding of religion. I believe God can grow as we do. I could be accused of diluting Judaism, but I think that if it has no relevance to people’s lives, Judaism will cease to exist.


He’s obsessed with the subway maps. We bought him some to hang on his wall, and when we walk in his room, he’ll be studying them. He knows all the stops for all the trains. He loves to ask strangers what stop they’re going to, so that he can give them advice.


If I could open up my own skate shop, I’d be so happy. Then I could do nothing but spread stoke to other riders. I’d like it to be in Puerto Rico. It would have this chill, laid back energy. It would be a no judge zone. You could wear anything. We’d have a tattoo guy chilling in the corner. There’d be crystals, and incense burning everywhere, and a big Buddha somewhere.


She’s much more anxious than I am. The way I look at things if the problem is important enough that it will affect us tomorrow, then we need to deal with it. Otherwise, we should let it roll off our shoulders. She thinks that if it’s going to affect our next minute, then it needs to be addressed right now.


The biggest piece I’ve ever found. Three quarters of an ounce. July 12th, 2006. Happiest day of my life. I’d been kidding the guys at camp all week, telling them: ‘Today’s the day I’m gonna find the big one.’ Then one morning, I switched to a new position, and I put a hose on one spot and right away I thought I saw something gleaming. So I grabbed it faster than greased lighting and I threw it in my pan, and I heard a ‘THUNK,’ and I knew it was fat. I’m not even going to sell it. It’s not money to me. It’s achievement.


I've got a small, self-operated gold mine on the middle fork of the Feather River in California." How'd you get into gold mining?" One day I quit my job, and said: "Fuck it, I'm going gold mining.'"


I was in Egypt during the Arab Spring when the Mubarak government got overthrown. I was building an amusement park called the Mubarak Family Park."


I go to the movies once a month. And I watch every single one of them."


I should have made more mistakes."


I've drawn this statue before, but I've gotten better since then. There's a level of skill where the drawing is so realistic that you can put the piece of paper in front of your face, and you'll swear that you're still looking at the sculpture. I've yet to reach that level, but I keep trying."


I wish I could be remembered through my work, but it doesn't seem like that's going to happen at this point. I sell what I can to keep up with the rent. It's like a huge rock is chained to my leg and keeps pulling me into the ocean. As long as I keep struggling, I'll be OK. But the moment I stop, I'll sink."


Today in microfashion


It seems that most children in America are encouraged to follow their dreams. But my parents are immigrants. And in China, most children are expected to choose a path that will help provide for the needs of their family. I enjoy music. But it’s difficult to go my own way without feeling coldhearted, or estranged."


It's her first new year. Well, her second new year. But the first one she could go outside."


Seen in Chinatown.


Happy Chinese New Year!


What's your biggest weakness?" When I'm in a relationship, I don't know how to make someone feel needed. Because I don't feel like I need anyone."


I don't look like an electrical engineer, but I'm in charge of power continuity in Manhattan. Don't get me wrong I have a boss. But I'm the only black woman who is the shift manager of a control room. So when it's my shift, I'm running shit. And I'm proud of that."


I'm trying to maintain my cool while dealing with the public. My job is to keep people from parking on this block without a permit. Earlier these two detectives tried to park, and I told them that it wasn't allowed. Then one of them tried to pull out his badge, like that's going to mean something to me. I said: "Are you trying to tell me that detectives get to break the law?' We got into it for a few minutes. Then he asked for my boss. Then he got into it with my boss for a few minutes. Then he found somewhere else to park."


I wish I could sell my hats unapologetically. Whenever someone compliments my hat, I only say: "Thank you.' I wish I was bold enough to say: 'Here I am. This is what I do. And you can have one too.'" Here she is:


Manners do matter, but I’d prefer that she not be too sophisticated at a young age. When we’re making art, I try not to show her any techniques. If she wants to draw a purple frog with curly legs, I don’t correct her. That’s her imagination and I don’t want to damage that part of her nature.


I'm having trouble finding work. People assume that all attorneys are well off, but once you're past an age where you are young and single and can work all night, your marketability changes. Everyone at my wife's office knows that I'm an attorney, so they assume that we're financially stable and that she can quit whenever she wants. It gives her a bit of a shield. I'd rather not show my face because I don't want her bosses to know how badly she needs the job."


Sometimes I find little pieces of paper that give me clues as to what's really going on this world."


Someone made an Instagram account that said: "You're a slut and you should kill yourself.' And I was the only person they followed."


I light up at night."


He was really drunk the first time I met him." I took a shot off her boobs."


Seen in Grand Central.


He put me in the hospital when I was pregnant with her. The next day he started crying, begging for forgiveness. He said: ‘I’m so sorry, I was drunk, I need you so much.’ So I took him back. The next time it happened, he managed to convince me that it was my fault. He said that he wouldn’t have gotten so angry if I had paid more attention to him. So I started thinking that I could be better. Then it happened again. Honestly, I stayed with him so much longer than I should have because I was afraid of becoming the stereotype of a single black mother.


I like to think that I've contributed to the history of art. Because I assist a very famous sculptor, and there have been times when I've convinced him to change his mind."


She separated from my dad but they don't hate each other, and all of us still do things together."


One of my friends came out to me, so I have my first gay friend now which is pretty exciting."


We worked at the same yarn factory. Most of the employees were women, and I could talk to every single one of them. But I never had the guts to talk to her. I kept looking for an opening but I could never find one. Then one day I happened to be walking by her house, and I saw her out in the yard chasing her German Shepherd. So the next day at work I marched right up to her and said: ‘Did you ever catch that dog?’ We got married four months later.


I recently found out that a lot of kids at school don't like me."


We dated for six months in college, while I was on an exchange program in Japan. Then we lost touch. For ten years."


Her father had just finished explaining that despite a career as a writer he had never managed to become a Great Writer, only a fair writer. Remember my father is a man, she said. And men are tortured by greatness.


When she got to be around eighteen or nineteen, I saw that she had talent as a writer. So I stopped telling her she was wonderful, and started telling her what I thought."
I had thousands of cases, but my biggest accomplishment was one particular case where I actually had the opportunity to help mold the law around a particular subject, but it’s very obscure and uninteresting.What was it?I successfully argued that the rights to geothermal steam belong to the owner of a property’s mineral rights as opposed to the owner of the property itself.


The last time I saw my father, he was very sick in a hospice bed, and we both knew that we'd probably never see each other again. He'd always been a very strong man, but when I had to leave to catch my flight, he grabbed onto my arm and started crying, and he kept asking me if I really had to go. It was almost as if the role of parent and child had been reversed."


I flew in to surprise a girl for Valentine's Day, but turns out she'd already planned to go on a ski trip. So I'm just kickin' it."


Was honored to speak at the  at  last night. They did a great job filming it, so if anyone's interested in some of the thought behind HONY, you can watch the speech here:This is a photo of me making my opening joke. Because you've gotta have an opening joke. (Photo Credit: Gail Oskin)
My parents both lived with me. When they got divorced last year, I had to choose which one got to stay."


We were walking outside my building, and a woman bent down and said: "Oh look at you! You're so fat!' If she was thinking that about a 4 lb dog, I wonder what she was thinking about me."


Today in microfashion


I'm going to find a job, goddamnit.  Nobody is going to force me into retirement at 61.  I moved to New York at the
age of 35 with nothing but $1000 and a cat.  I've reinvented myself
once.  And I can do it again."
All the other males in my family are officers in the Pakistani army. I work in a cubicle.


I’ve tried to invest my time and money into other people’s dreams.  I
thought that helping others succeed would be an easy way to accomplish
something without the pressure of doing it myself.  But I’ve been
burned.  You’d expect people to be grateful if you’ve helped them.  But a
 lot of times they will avoid you.  People don’t like to be reminded
that they owe their success to anyone.  Sometimes they’ll even find
reasons to vilify you, if it helps to make the debt invalid.
The story of  took on such an incredible life of its own during the last few days, that it became easy to forget our fundraiser. With just 33 hours left, the campaign has raised $1.25 million, with every dollar raised over $700,000 going into a scholarship fund for MHBA graduates. 41,500 of you have donated so far. I’ve been told by a reliable source that the most-backed Indiegogo campaign ever had 48,000 donors. I think it would be a fun ending to the story if we could surpass that amount. If you were inspired by the story of MHBA, please consider becoming a part of that story by contributing $5 or $10 to the scholarship fund that we’ve created for its scholars. You can do so here:

I don’t know how to make the transition to ‘OK, let’s go out now.’ I always think that if I ask, and it doesn’t work, I won’t even have what we have now.


We were married for eighteen years before he fucked around and I caught him. But I’d say it was a very successful marriage. We raised two kids. I don’t think something has to last forever to be successful.


I had just turned eighteen when we met.  He was in his thirties.  I’d
wanted to go to the beach that day, but my mother made me go to a
restaurant with her friends.   While we were eating, this gringo came
over and started talking to us.  He didn’t speak a word of Portuguese,
and I didn’t speak a word of English.  My mother’s friends were
encouraging him to talk to me.  One of them gave him my number,
 and the next day he started texting me these simple Spanish phrases.  
He’d write things like: ‘Vamos a la playa,’ which was funny, because I
spoke Portuguese.  Eventually he asked to take my mother and I out to
dinner.  He kept a dictionary in his hand the entire time we were
eating, and he spoke in very short phrases.  I asked him what he did,
and he accidentally said ‘diving.’  So for a long time, I thought I was
dating a diver.  When he went back to America, he started sending me
cards.  Then he began to visit on the weekends.  It was all very
exciting for me.  I fell in love with him.  But I didn’t really know
him.  Whenever we were together, he was away from the worries of his
life.  I fell in love with someone who was on vacation.
You know you're getting older when people start to over-explain things to
you.  I was signing up for a course last week, and this twenty-something
 girl started explaining the payment options.  She was talking very
slowly, and kept repeating herself.  Give me a break.  I have a Masters
in business."
I thought having kids would magically transform me into a mother, who had
 no problem doing laundry, or cooking, or keeping house.  But I ended up
 still being me, just with children now."
My parents put me in a home for retarded people."
We’re getting married tomorrow.  For tax purposes.
Who has influenced you the most in your life?My mother. She had me when she was 18 years old, and my father left when I was one year old, so I never really knew him. Like a lot of single moms, she had to struggle to work, and eventually she also struggled to go to school. And she’s really the person who instilled in me a sense of confidence and a sense that I could do anything. She eventually went on to get her PhD. It took her ten years, but she did it, and I watched her grind through it. And as I got older, like everyone else, I realized that my mother wasn’t all that different than me. She had her own doubts, and fears, and she wasn’t always sure of the right way of doing things. So to see her overcome tough times was very inspiring. Because that meant I could overcome tough times too.
When is the time you felt most broken?I first ran for Congress in 1999, and I got beat. I just got whooped. I had been in the state legislature for a long time, I was in the minority party, I wasn’t getting a lot done, and I was away from my family and putting a lot of strain on Michelle. Then for me to run and lose that bad, I was thinking maybe this isn’t what I was cut out to do. I was forty years old, and I’d invested a lot of time and effort into something that didn’t seem to be working. But the thing that got me through that moment, and any other time that I’ve felt stuck, is to remind myself that it’s about the work. Because if you’re worrying about yourself—if you’re thinking: ‘Am I succeeding? Am I in the right position? Am I being appreciated?’  then you’re going to end up feeling frustrated and stuck. But if you can keep it about the work, you’ll always have a path. There’s always something to be done.
You don’t do things alone. Nobody does things alone. Everybody always needs support. For a young man like you, you should never be too afraid or too shy to look for people who can encourage you or mentor you. There are a lot of people out there who want to provide advice and support to people who are trying to do the right thing. So you’ll have a lot of people helping you. Just always remember to be open to help. Never think that you know everything. And always be ready to listen.
On January 19th, I met a young man on the street named Vidal, and I asked him to tell me about the person who had influenced him the most in his life. He told me about his principal, Ms. Lopez, and he explained how she had taught him that he mattered. Over the next two weeks, I learned the story of Ms. Lopez and her school, Mott Hall Bridges Academy. By hearing the stories of MHBA students and educators, my eyes were opened to the unique challenges facing a school in an under-served community. Ms. Lopez taught me that before a student is ready for academic training, they must be made to understand that they deserve success. And that can be the hardest battle in education. Ms. Lopez always said that there was no place her students did not belong. Recently we received an invitation that proved just that.
10 years, 2 months, 7 days.  It’s the only tattoo I have on my body.  I
was the youngest person in prison, so I withdrew into myself, and I
started writing in a journal every single day.  That journal became my
world.  I used it to figure things out, and one of the first things I
realized was that I’d stopped being me.  It wasn’t so much the crime
that had landed me in prison.  It was that I had decided
 to stop being me.  And I needed to find that nerdy, intelligent kid
that I’d once been.  So I started studying in prison.  Then one day I
got a letter from Principal Lopez.  And she told me: ‘I grew up with
you.  And I know that you aren’t the person they say you are.  So the
moment you get out of prison, you are going to come speak to my kids,
because I want them to learn from your experience.’  And I immediately
started crying in my cell.  And sure enough, two days after I got out,
she called me on the phone, and asked: ‘Why aren’t you here yet?
I grew up as a nerdy kid.  I was a Jehovah’s Witness.  People were always making fun of me.  Then on the first day of
 high school, three older kids came up and tried to rob me and my
friends.  My friends ran away, so the kids knocked me to
 the ground and beat me badly.  On that day I decided that being nerdy
wasn’t working for me.  I realized that being smart and intelligent
wasn’t going to protect me.  So I decided to stop being me.  I started
engaging in things, hanging around guns, stuff that I knew was wrong.  I
 felt like the only way to survive was to not isolate myself from the
pack.
I was in technical school when it happened, and I was only three months
from graduating.  I was going to be an HVAC repairman.  Then one day
these two older kids asked me to come with them to Manhattan.  They told
 me they were going to do something, and they needed a lookout.
Honestly, it was just something to do.  We didn’t talk about money or
anything.   We drove to the place and they told me to
 stand on the corner.  There weren’t even cellphones in those days, so I
 don’t even know what I was supposed to be doing.  The two guys went
into a store, and after about five seconds I started hearing shots.
They came running back out, and somebody was chasing them, shooting at
them.  So I ran straight home and I turned on the TV.  And I saw the
faces of the two guys I was with.  It said they were wanted for double
homicide.  A couple days later, two detectives came and arrested me in
front of my entire family.  My mother was screaming.  I didn’t think
that I’d done anything wrong.  The first time I met with my lawyer, she
told me that she could get me life without parole, like that was a good
thing.  It didn’t feel real.
We just finished shooting a segment with Robin Roberts for tomorrow's Good
 Morning America.  Robin is one of those rare few whose warmth doesn’t
fade when the camera shuts off.  She started crying when she left,
because she said she was thinking about how much her mother would love
the story of Ms. Lopez and Mott Hall Bridges Academy. My mother wasn’t supposed to go to college, she explained.
 My grandmother dropped out of school in 5th grade, and my grandfather
dropped out in 6th grade.  So they just didn’t know how to raise a
daughter to go to college.  But my mother had an elementary school
teacher named Ms. Wilma Schnegg.  And Ms. Schnegg is a legend in our
family, because she made sure my mother knew that she was expected to go
 to college.  She sat down and helped my mother apply for a $100
scholarship, and my mother used that scholarship to go to Howard
University.  And that one act rippled down through several generations.
 Because of that, my mother met my father.  And they raised four
children who went to college.  And because of Ms. Schnegg, I’m where I
am today.  So I look at the story of Ms. Lopez and this school, and I
think of Ms. Schnegg, and I think of how much my mother would have loved
 this story.
On some days, it feels like my scholars are drifting out into the ocean, and I’m trying to paddle toward them to save them, but they keep getting
 farther and farther away from me.  It can be tough to keep them engaged.
 Many of them don’t believe in themselves.  If the material gets too
hard, they’ll lose confidence, and try to find ways to not deal with it
directly.  Instead of struggling, they’ll decide not to care. So we try
to teach them that struggle is necessary, and it’s alright.  I always
remind them of the Frederick Douglass said: ‘Without struggle, there can
 be no progress.’
I’m the new guy.  I’ve only been teaching for a year.  Before that, I ran
an after-school program in the library for a group of 5 to 12 year olds.
  One day we were doing a lesson that involved building a structure out
of simple materials: manila folders, scotch tape, drinking straws,
things like that.  It was a pretty boring exercise.  But I went to Party
 City and bought some yellow plastic hard hats,
 and when I handed them out, they transformed the kids.  The hats made
them feel like builders.  They got very serious and competitive.  Other
kids saw them through the window, and asked to join, until all the hats
were gone.  It made me realize that I had value to add as a teacher, so I
 entered an alternative certification program.  And here I am.
Vidal, Ms. Lopez, and I will be on  today.
I drive ambulettes right now.  When I get a few days off, I want to upgrade to a Class A license, save up a bit, and
 get my own tractor trailer.  You can get a used one for about 15 grand.
  Then if I can find some steady contracts, I can start a company, take
out a loan, and get a few more trucks.  Then I'll give jobs to everyone
in my family.
Today in microfashion
There aren't a lot of girls basketball teams around here, so I practice with these guys."  Which ones can you beat?"  Him, him, and him."
There are a lot of boys on the streets around here, aged 14 through 19, who
are the real terrors of the neighborhood.  They didn’t make it in school
 and most of them aren’t getting a second chance, so they go around
causing trouble.  I try to grab the kids early so they don’t go down
that path.  Most of my team lives in the housing developments, so they
are surrounded by gangs and drugs.  But basketball gives them a solace
from all of that.  When they’re on the court, it’s only about
basketball.
When I was younger I couldn’t control my anger. But every day I’m working on
 it. Now if I make a mistake on the court, I take deep breaths like
Coach Randy said, and I try not to yell. If I’m still upset, then I tell
 my teammates how I feel and see if they can help me.
I grew up with a lot of these kids’ parents.  One of their fathers
actually used to beat me up on the basketball court.  So did his uncle.
 When I graduated from college, I could have left Brownsville.  But I
wanted to come back and be an agent of change. I wanted to help piece
the neighborhood back together.  So when Ms. Lopez told me she needed a
basketball coach, I told her I’d do it for free. This is our second
season.  Our first season, we weren’t even in a league, so I had to call
 other schools and beg them to come play us.  We didn’t even have
jerseys.  But we still went 8-1.  Every one of these kids could make the
 NBA if they put in the time.  And I’m here to offer that.
I stutter when I read sometimes, and people laugh. It makes me feel ashamed, and it makes me worry that when I grow
up I won’t be able to teach my kids how to read because of how I read.
But I go to study hall every day because Coach Randy says that if I read
 a book every day, nobody will ever tell me again that I stutter.
I want to be a real estate broker. My mentor is a real estate broker
named Anthony Morris. He says that he can relate to what I'm going
through because he grew up with a lot of challenges and had a hard time
when he was younger."  How did you meet him?"  One day I got in a
 fight with another girl in the hallway, and Principal Lopez said that
she wouldn't suspend me if I spent a day with Mr. Morris."
My students are going to need education to advocate for themselves.  They
need to understand the law, so they know if it’s being applied to them
fairly.  They need to understand the services they deserve, so they know
 if they’re receiving them.  They even need to be educated about simple
things like fresh fruit.  There isn’t any fresh fruit in the stores
around here.  And they think that’s normal.  They need to know that’s
not normal, and that they deserve fresh fruit.
My family emigrated from Haiti when I was seven.  None of us spoke any
English.  So I learned at a very early age that I would need education
to advocate for myself.  My father worked as a landscaper and my mother
was a janitor.  Whenever they visited my elementary school, they would
need a translator to speak to my teachers. Ms. Rogers, my first grade
teacher, told me that I would need to learn fast
 so that I could advocate for my family.  She gave me extra books to
bring home during the summer.  I remember being a child, and arguing
about bills with cable and utility companies.  I kept advocating for my
parents until my father passed away last year.  Because he couldn’t
speak English, his doctors never took the time to fully explain his
cancer to him.  So I had to get on the phone and draw the prognosis out
of his doctors.  I had to tell my father he had stage four pancreatic
cancer, and I was the one who had to deal with the insurance companies.
 I would not have been able to do that without my education.
I'm not going to get a criminal record because I don't want to be a bad
person in life.  But if I do get a criminal record, I'm going to try to
make sure my child doesn't make the same mistake I did."  Who taught you that?"  My father."
I always get in trouble for talking.  I start out talking about the work,
 but then I start talking about something else, and that’s when I get
caught.  The other day we were in social studies class, so I was talking
 to my friend about social studies, but then we started to talk about
eating at Checkers.  And we got caught.  The teacher never catches you
when you’re talking about social studies.  They only catch you when
you’re talking about Checkers.
My life has been around my children.  And I can say that even as a single
mother, not one of my kids hit the streets.  I made sure I was hard,
especially on my two boys.   They’d try to test me when they got older.
 If they ever tried to talk to me like they saw their friends talking to
 women on the street, I’d put them right in their place: ‘Who the fuck
do you think you’re talking to?  You think I’m a bitch on the street?
I’ll show you bitch on the street!’  Sometimes they’d be so hard headed,
 I’d leave the room, throw up my hands, and give up.  But then I’d think
 about it, and decide: ‘No way I’m going to let them beat me.’  Then I’d
 march right back in the room.
It's too late to get to the pros.  I was good but I didn't take it seriously
 and I messed up.  I was averaging 15 or 16 points a game.  I was
supposed to be the first one to make it out of Brownsville."
Just amazing.  And in less than five days.  Thanks to the 34,893 of you who
have donated so far.  (That's getting close to an Indiegogo record, by
the way!)  Thanks also to those of you who have been following along,
and lending comments of support.  I'm so proud of how everyone has
rallied around this story, in ways that go so far beyond just raising
money.
Before all of this happened for our school, I felt broken. And I think the world felt a little broken too, because a lot of bad things have been happening lately, especially between black people and white people. But all of you gave people a reason to feel a little less broken. And the craziest thing about all of this is that it’s happening in Brownsville. Before this, people watched the news and read the newspapers, and some people even thought that all we do here is fight and act crazy. But now there are so many people out there that care about you and want to know more about you. People are even emailing me and asking if they can meet you and mentor you. Not just people from Brownsville, not just people from Brooklyn, not just people in New York, but people all over the world. So I need all of you to work a little harder. Whenever you don’t feel like doing your homework, I need you to remember that you’re helping tell the story of Brownsville to people all over the world.  We are currently profiling , a middle school in the under-served neighborhood of Brownsville, Brooklyn. As we learn about the school, its scholars, and its educators, we are also raising funds to provide a financial boost to the school’s mission. All funds raised over $700,000 are being used to establish a scholarship fund available to graduates of MHBA. The scholarship fund is named The Vidal Fund, after the young man who inspired the entire story. Nearly 30,000 people have donated so far. If you’d like to participate, you can do so here:
I have something to admit to all of you. Before all of this happened, I was about to give up. I was broken. I felt like typing my resignation. I told my mother: ‘Mom, I don’t think I can do it anymore. Because I don’t think my scholars care. And I don’t think they believe in themselves enough to care. I’m afraid they don’t think they’re good enough.’ And she told me to pray on it. But I told her, ‘I might be too angry to pray.’ And I know this is hard to believe, because you guys have never seen me break. But I was broken. It’s just like when you see your mom break down. You only see your mom cry when she’s been fighting so hard for you and she doesn’t think you care. That’s how I felt. But then a couple nights later I was with my daughter at a Broadway show, and we were waiting for the show to start, and I started to get all these text messages from my teachers and former students. And then I saw Vidal’s face pop up on my screen. And my first thought was that something bad had happened. Because that’s normally the case around here when someone’s photo shows up unexpectedly. And the moment I realized that Vidal had said something nice about me, the usher came over and made me turn off my phone. When intermission came, my daughter said: ‘Mom, we’ve got to find out what’s happening.’ So we went and sat in the car. And I read what Vidal said, and I began to read the comments. And tears started coming down my face. Because even though I always tell you that you matter, up until that moment, I didn’t feel like I mattered. We are currently profiling , a middle school in the under-served neighborhood of Brownsville, Brooklyn. As we learn about the school, its scholars, and its educators, we are also raising funds to provide a financial boost to the school’s mission. All funds raised over $700,000 are being used to establish a scholarship fund available to graduates of MHBA. The scholarship fund is named The Vidal Fund, after the young man who inspired the entire story. Nearly 30,000 people have donated so far. If you’d like to participate, you can do so here:
There was an assembly on Monday where Ms. Lopez explained the fundraiser to the entire student body. Most of the students had already heard bits and pieces about what’s been going on, but Ms. Lopez projected the blog onto a screen and walked through the entire story. She began with Vidal’s original post and ended with the final tally raised thus far. ($707,000 at the time. $875,000 now!)  The scholars of MHBA are inspiring the entire world, Ms. Lopez said. People have written me letters from New Zealand, England, and South Africa, telling me that they care about you. An especially great part of the assembly was when Ms. Lopez scrolled through the posts featuring teachers, and the students let out a giant cheer when each teacher’s name was announced:  Even Ms. Powell told her story!"  (Cheers)  And Ms. Stangl!"  (Cheers)  And Mr. Turner!"  (Cheers)  Vidal also got a huge cheer when his story was shown. But the biggest cheer of all was reserved for the end, when Ms. Lopez announced: As a result of this fundraiser, the entire school will be going to visit Harvard. We’re all going to Harvard!"   The kids went nuts. So far our campaign has provided the funds for ten years of Harvard trips and ten years of summer programs for , a middle school in the under-served neighborhood of Brownsville, Brooklyn. All funds raised over $700,000 are being used to establish a scholarship fund available to graduates of MHBA. The scholarship fund is named The Vidal Fund, after the young man who inspired the entire story. If you’d like to contribute, you can do so here:
When you posted last week about all the ways Vidal helps around the house, most of the comments were very nice. But a few people really ripped into me. They said that I was lazy and I was a bad mother. I wanted to reply, but Vidal stopped me. He said: "Don't worry about them, Mom. Let them be negative. They don't know how it is.'"
I try to be very open with them about everything, because I want them to feel that they can be open with me about everything. I work as a nanny, and work is steady right now, but sometimes it’s slow. And when it’s slow, I explain that we need to cut back financially. On Friday we have family night, where we watch a movie and the kids get to choose what food we eat. But they know that when Mom isn’t working, we can’t have family night.
The buildings are filthy in the housing projects. Some people poop and pee in the hallways. And some of the people around here aren’t friendly. I don’t think it’s a sadness or an anger that they feel, but a sort of emptiness. You look around and see a lot of negative things, and you can’t help but feel like you’re a part of something negative, and that maybe you're something negative. Part of me wants to leave. But part of me wants to stay, because I have a lot of family nearby, and I don’t want to live far away from them.
I asked Vidal if I could photograph him in the same place that I met him for this next announcement. In only four days, we’ve raised over $700,000 for Vidal’s classmates at . Nearly 25,000 of you have made a donation. Taken together, these donations have provided funding for ten years worth of Harvard trips, and ten years worth of summer programs. Your donations have given a heavy boost to a group of scholars and educators in their battle to establish a culture of success in a disadvantaged neighborhood. There was an assembly today where the full impact of the fundraiser was explained to all of the students, and it was quite emotional. (But more on that later.) I wanted to announce that all funds raised over $700,000 will be reserved for a final purpose. We are starting a scholarship fund available to the graduates of Mott Hall Bridges Academy. A committee of MHBA educators and administrators will choose the recipients each year. We’re going to use the money from our campaign to get the fund started, but we’re also going to lay tracks so that it can continue to assist scholars for years to come. It will be called The Vidal Scholarship Fund. And the first recipient will be Vidal himself. If you’d like to contribute, you can do so here:
I came from a very poor family. My father was a small farmer in Nigeria. And even though he had no education, he always taught me that education was the most important thing. He told me: ‘When you have no education, it’s like being in a small room with many people. There is little opportunity available to you, and many people are competing with you. But as you educate yourself, the room grows. You have more opportunities, and less people competing with you.’ I always remembered that. My mother died when I was twelve. I started working as a maid when I turned thirteen. I made 5 cents a day, which I saved for school. There was no free education in Nigeria. When I ran out of money, I’d stop going to school and go back to work. Stop, work, go back to school. Stop, work, go back to school. And all along my father would say, ‘You aren’t done yet. This is not your last bus stop. One day you will have so much education that you will teach in America.’
I was a teacher in Nigeria. I had 41 students in my classroom. Most of my students in Nigeria had no shoes, no clothes, no food. Nothing, nothing. But they wanted to learn. They showed up every day wanting to learn. When I told my colleagues that I was going to teach in America, they said: ‘Don’t do it. The students there don’t want to learn. They will scream all during class.’ In a way, they were right. My classrooms in America were much different than my classrooms in Nigeria. There were fewer students, and more resources, but there was not the same desire to learn. I’ve had to learn to teach motivation. And I’ve found that the only way it can be done is to show it myself. I try to teach each child as if they were my own. If the students see that I am trying my hardest every single day, many times they will respond by increasing their own effort.
I can teach a lot of things. But it’s so hard to teach effort. It’s so hard to teach want. And there are certain days when it seems like the scholars don’t care, and you feel like no matter how hard you try, nothing is getting through, and the negative thoughts get louder and louder, and it’s easy to feel worthless. And today was one of those days. Normally I’m always the one with a smile on my face, cheering everybody up. But today was one of those days.
I was visiting Vidal today when we remembered that he was going to be making his big newspaper debut in the Daily News. So we ran across the street to the corner store, and sure enough, there we were! Right under the naked women.
Sometimes the gaps are so large, you don’t even know where to start. The lesson plan says that you’re supposed to be teaching about tectonic plates. But if they’re going to understand tectonic plates, they need to understand density. And if they’re going to understand density, they need to understand mass and volume. And if they’re going to understand mass and volume, they need to know how to multiply. And some of the scholars don’t know how to multiply. The gaps can be so large you don’t even know where to start. How do you fill the gaps created by years of miseducation? Sometimes it feels so hopeless you want to give up. But I was up at 2 AM the other night, reading all the comments people were writing on the posts about Ms. Lopez, and I just kept scrolling and scrolling and scrolling, and it reminded me that I have a purpose and I need to keep going.
I used to be a public defender. One time I represented a man who was facing thirty years for crack possession. He hadn’t graduated from middle school, and he had a previous record with several drug charges. I worked on his case, and I managed to get his sentence reduced to twelve years. He was always so good about thanking me, and after the case was finished, he wrote me a thank you note. It really bothered me that we live in a society where this man felt he needed to thank me for getting him a twelve-year prison term. I didn’t decide to become a teacher until two years later. But I always think of that note as the turning point. I still keep it in my classroom.
I grew up down the block, but I used to get bussed to school in a white area. There were always a lot of people in that neighborhood who would make us feel like we didn’t belong. They would try to send a message that blacks aren’t allowed. But the principal of the school was a Jewish man named Irving Rahinsky. And every morning, when we got off the bus, Mr. Rahinksy would be standing there at the curb, waiting for us. He would shake each one of our hands as we stepped off the bus, and he made us feel like we belonged. So now that I’m a teacher, I come in early every single morning, so that I can stand right here and make sure my students get a hug and a handshake when they arrive.
Vidal is very loving. I sometimes worry that he might be a bit too loving, and someone will take advantage of him one day. Anything that needs to be done, Vidal does it. He does laundry. He cooks. He cleans. He always tells me: "Mom, you rest. I'll do it.' One time he didn't have any money to get me a gift for Mother's Day, so he wrapped up some things we had around the house, and gave them to me."
One of the coolest things about this fundraiser is that it originated with a young man on the street, who chose to tell a stranger about the love and appreciation he had for his school principal. His name is Vidal, and I had a chance to reconnect with him during my visit to Mott Hall Bridges Academy. He could not possibly be a more polite or charismatic young man. I want to own my own restaurant, he told me. When I was little, I used to watch my mom cook. Then I started cooking for myself when I was nine. I’d get the ingredients myself at the corner store and make something for my brothers. I just thought it was a good thing for an older brother to do. I can make curry chicken, jerk chicken, curry goat, fried rice, macaroni and cheese, and all kinds of stuff. What would you say has been your biggest accomplishment? Getting publicity for my school.  - The fundraiser inspired by Vidal has been an overwhelming blessing for his school, and has raised over $570,000 to help provide much needed programs for his classmates. If you’d like to help expand upon its success, you can do so by contributing here:
People have such a horrible concept of what is going on in Brownsville. But there are leaders here who are committed to transforming this neighborhood. Ms. Lopez is exceptional, but I could introduce you to many more principals who are just as committed to transforming the lives of their students. There’s Craig Garber at Brooklyn Environmental Exploration School— it's just incredible what he's done at that place. There’s Dr. Thomas McBryde from Mott Hall IV. There’s Stacey Walsh from Brownsville Collaborative Middle School. There’s Robin Williams Davson at Brooklyn Landmark. I could go on and on and on. There's a whole group of educators who are revved up to rebrand Brownsville and the world is going to know about it.  
I only had a few minutes to speak with Ms. Lopez yesterday because she was hosting a conference for the district’s principals. (Because that’s the kind of thing Ms. Lopez does.) Attending the conference was Ms. Mauriciere de Govia, the superintendent of Brownsville’s school district, who was kind enough to speak with me for a few minutes in a quiet stairwell. I asked for her opinion on Ms. Lopez: Nadia is fearless. When she says that every kid can learn, she means it. And not only does she mean it, she puts systems in place to make it happen. It all begins with high expectations. When students arrive at this school, many of them are very behind. But Nadia sets high expectations on every one. She never says: ‘This student lives in the shelter so he deserves a break. Or ‘Because of his parents, this student can’t be expected to keep up.’ She says: ‘This is how we do things here, and there is no sidestepping.’ - We are currently profiling , a very special middle school in a very tough part of Brooklyn. As we learn about the school and its inspiring leader, Principal Lopez, we are also raising funds to help leverage its impact on the community.  
We've raised enough money in 24 hours to make the Harvard trip a permanent part of the MHBA curriculum. With two weeks left in the fundraiser, I sat down with Ms. Lopez today to learn the best way that we could continue to help her secure a bright future for her students. We have a major need for a summer program, she explained. Learning stops during the summer for my scholars. We have what is called a ‘summer slide.’ My scholars can’t even go outside. It’s too dangerous. As an exercise, my teachers broke into small groups and took a walk through the community. We wanted to understand how our students live. We went inside the housing projects. The parks and playgrounds were empty because it’s too dangerous. Even the library isn’t a safe zone. Just last Saturday, one of my scholars had two guns pulled on him while he was walking to the community center. In broad daylight. It’s just too dangerous to be outside, so my scholars stay inside all summer. They aren’t learning to ride horses or drive boats, and they certainly aren’t traveling. They miss out on the enrichment available to children from more affluent neighborhoods. They need a safe place where they can do activities and continue to grow their minds. I tried to put together a program last summer, but I couldn’t afford it. I couldn’t really put together any activities, and I could only use teachers-in-training. I need the funds to put together a program with my own teachers so my students have a safe place where they can continue to grow outside of school. Ms. Lopez estimates that an effective summer program will cost about $40,000 a year. So every $40,000 beyond the $350,000 we’ve already raised will provide another safe and productive summer  for the students at . If you hadn’t already donated, please consider helping us continue to empower this visionary educator in her quest to transform her school and community: 
Just came back from a quick meeting with Ms. Lopez at , so we could discuss how to make the most impact with the amazing success of our fundraiser so far. ($365,000!) There was a wonderful energy in the school today, everyone was beyond thrilled and overwhelmed by your generosity. My favorite part of the day was when I walked into Ms. Lopez's office, and discovered that some of you had taken it upon yourselves to send her bouquets of flowers. I've said it before this is the most warm hearted group of people on the internet.
What's your biggest goal in life?"  I want to make it out of the hood. I don't have to go that far. But if I can just live an inch outside, then I'll feel safe and know that I'm straight."  - Adrian is the student government president at . For anyone who hasn't seen already, we are currently holding a fundraising campaign to provide the students at Adrian's school with an annual visit to Harvard:
After our first meeting, Ms. Lopez invited me to sit in on one of her staff meetings. It had been a tough week for many of the teachers, and from the heavy energy in the room, I could feel the immense difficulty of their jobs. It can be especially hard when you come back from holiday break,"  Ms. Lopez explained. Because it can feel like so much of the progress you made last semester was undone during the break. It's hard, it's hard, it's hard. And it's OK for you to feel like you want to give up. You can quit anytime you want, and I will pick up the phone and recommend you for a new job, because every one of you could succeed anywhere. But these kids need you. Our girls don't feel honored and respected. Our boys are being recruited into gangs. Your classrooms may be the one place they feel safe and respected. If we give up, there is nobody else. There is a system out there that is waiting for our scholars to show up in shackles and jumpsuits if we choose to give up on them."   We are currently holding a campaign to institute an annual class trip to Harvard for students at Ms. Lopez's school, . Thanks to everyone who's donated, we have raised $185,000 in just a few hours. That is a transformative amount of money, and will fund this initiative for over six years. I would love to continue adding to the fund, so that this trip will become a permanent part of the school's backbone. In turn, it will hopefully help MHBA become a permanent part of the community's backbone. If you haven't already donated, please take a look:  To everyone who donated thank you, thank you, thank you. I truly fell in love with this school during my visits, and you have lent so much energy to its mission.
I spent yesterday afternoon in a brainstorming session with Ms. Lopez and her assistant principal Ms. Achu, trying to think of creative ways that the HONY community could help further the vision of Mott Hall Bridges Academy. Our discussion covered many needs, but we kept returning to one in particular the limited horizons of disadvantaged youth. Ms. Lopez’s school is situated in a neighborhood with the highest crime rate in New York, and many of her scholars have very limited mobility. Some of them are very much ‘stuck’ in their neighborhood. And many have never left the city. It can be very difficult for them to dream beyond what they know, Ms. Lopez explained. So the three of us struck on an idea. (OK, it was Ms. Achu’s idea, but we all agreed.) We want to create a fund that will provide each incoming 6th grade class at Mott Hall Bridges Academy a chance to get out of their neighborhood and visit a new place. And that place is Harvard University. I want every child who enters my school to know that they can go anywhere, and that they will belong, said Ms. Lopez.So we’re going to try to make it happen! Let’s help this visionary educator enrich the lives of her students. 
A couple days back, I posted the portrait of a young man who described an influential principal in his life by the name of Ms. Lopez. Yesterday I was fortunate to meet Ms. Lopez at her school, Mott Hall Bridges Academy.This is a neighborhood that doesn’t necessarily expect much from our children, so at Mott Hall Bridges Academy we set our expectations very high. We don’t call the children ‘students,’ we call them ‘scholars.’ Our color is purple. Our scholars wear purple and so do our staff. Because purple is the color of royalty. I want my scholars to know that even if they live in a housing project, they are part of a royal lineage going back to great African kings and queens. They belong to a group of individuals who invented astronomy and math. And they belong to a group of individuals who have endured so much history and still overcome. When you tell people you’re from Brownsville, their face cringes up. But there are children here that need to know that they are expected to succeed.
I got captured in Vietnam. And I fell out of the helicopter when they were rescuing me from a prison camp. How’d you get captured? I was on patrol. And I noticed a bush where there hadn’t been no bush before. So I says to the guy next to me, ‘That bush is moving.’ But he didn’t believe me. So I took the bubblegum out of my mouth, and I stuck it on the bush. Then we walked a little more, and we turned around, and sure enough, there was the bush with the bubblegum! I said to my friend, ‘There it is! I told you!’ Then they jumped out and got us.
I cried the first time I did heroin. I’d never wanted to do it. I always spoke out against it. But I was 245 lbs at the time, and I was with the first guy who had ever showed any interest in me. So I did it to feel accepted. Now, I’m always waiting for my next fix. Even when I manage to get clean, the demon is always on my back I always thought I was too smart to be an addict. And I am smart. I sing, I write poetry. There was so much I could have done. And I cry every day of my life. Because I’m too smart for this to have happened to me.
My biggest goal is to be completely normal. I want to wake up in a bed every morning, take a shower, drink a cup of coffee, eat breakfast, and read the paper.
I went to jail for ten years, but that's all behind me."  What for?"  Why should I tell you?"  It's your story."  .organized crime. Allegedly."
I have very dreams. Much dreams. First, learn English."

My dad was a Latin musician, so I rebelled against that and chose rock and roll. So I wanted to be careful not to try and force my interests on my son, because then he’d go the other direction. So I just took him to the comic book store one day, and told him to look around. Then I bought him a record player, and a bunch of vinyls. And check this out when I walked into his room the other night, he was reading a comic book, and listening to Van Halen’s first album! That’s my boy!
My wife is much more of an intellectual than I am. She actually had one of her friends read a verse from The Odyssey at our wedding. I prefer comic books. I think it bugged her at first. I never wanted to read the same books as her, and I wasn’t as well spoken, and she’d always correct me when I used double negatives. But I think she came to appreciate that I’m wise in other ways. I think I’m better at reading people, for example. So now she just does her intellectual stuff without me. I’ll cook breakfast in the morning while she goes to the coffee shop and annotates James Joyce. I’m serious. She does it every morning.
Who's influenced you the most in your life?"  My principal, Ms. Lopez."  How has she influenced you?"  When we get in trouble, she doesn't suspend us. She calls us to her office and explains to us how society was built down around us. And she tells us that each time somebody fails out of school, a new jail cell gets built. And one time she made every student stand up, one at a time, and she told each one of us that we matter."
When you live here, you don't have too many fears. You've seen pretty much everything that life can throw at you. When I was nine, I saw a guy get pushed off the roof of that building right there."
I'm not the best communicator. I spend a lot of time disappointed by what I just said."
His gym teacher told me that when he's the captain of a team, he first picks the kids who normally get picked last."
On the first day of summer school, my mom told me to walk up to the teacher, and say: "My name is Lameisha. I'm here to learn. And I'm going to ace this class.'"
It happened when I was fifteen. I got stabbed in the back with a screwdriver while I was waiting for the school bus. It was completely random. They didn't rob me or anything. I knew my legs were gone the moment I hit the ground."
I realize now that my parents are just regular people with flaws, and my dad is not a villain. He's just an asshole."
How'd you meet?" We were in the same improv class. One day she complimented my glasses. Then I complimented her glasses. Then I ran away."
I thought I was lying to protect them. I pretended everything was fine because I didn't want them to worry about anything. My favorite thing to say was "I got it.' That was my answer for everything. If my wife asked if we had money for rent, I'd just say: 'I got it.' But I was just pushing my problems to the side and giving them a temporary smile. Eventually all the problems came to light. And on top of all of them, there was the additional problem of the lies I'd been telling."
I’m a neuro-nurse, so I work with patients who have brain injuries, or conditions like Lupus or Parkinson’s. A lot of the patients I work with are at the lowest point of their lives, so they can react by being angry or abusive. It's tough to absorb that energy all day long and not bring it home with you. I always try to jump on their lily pad so that I can empathize with them. But at the end of every day, I’ve got to make sure that I jump back off.
I’m just trying to make sure that my son is a better me. I got on the right track late. I had my son when I was eighteen. I was constantly running away from my responsibilities. When I was twenty-one, I left one morning to go to the store, got arrested for possession, and didn’t come back for eight months. When I came back, everything was out of whack. We were behind on the bills. We were almost evicted. My son was acting out in school. It shocked me into doing the right thing. I got a job in construction and started going to school. Now I work in IT. Recently, I had a conference with my son’s teachers. They told me that his problems were talking with friends and not paying attention. I actually laughed. I couldn’t believe those counted as problems. When I was his age, my problems were food and shelter.
I posted a portrait of Ramon on Christmas Day. In the caption, Ramon explained the difficulties of being homeless and disabled. He had been living at a shelter for several months a tough situation made even tougher by his lack of mobility. Everyone was quite moved by his story, and seeing that it was Christmas and all, we launched a holiday fundraiser to get Ramon out of the shelter and into an apartment. But after three minutes, Ramon texted me, and said: Thank you so much, really, but I feel that there are other people who need the money more, so I'd like to figure things out on my own."  Given Ramon's situation, it was a pretty heroic display of self-reliance. Yesterday I brought Ramon the $800 that had been raised in the first few minutes of the fundraiser, which he graciously agreed to accept so that he could buy a bed. And he very happily reported that he was now out of the shelter, and had found an affordable place in Brooklyn to share with his three brothers, one of whom is pictured here.
My favorite thing about my sister is because she's funny."
I want to be in action movies. I want to kick a lot of ass. But not in an overly sexualized way."
I am so much better than I am right now."
When I left Africa, a witch doctor promised that she was going to kill me with voodoo. Two years later, I suddenly had a horrible migraine. But Jesus saved me. I've almost completely recovered from the surgery."
My wife has been teaching me to express my emotions. She's even got me being romantic. We walk to the park. We lay down a little blanket. We make a little picnic. We have a little chit chat."
I was a British Marine Commando for eighteen years. I served in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Sierra Leone. But I never enjoyed it. I just enjoyed the respect that it gave me. The whole time I was just pretending to be a soldier. The problem is that I was good at it, and it’s extremely hard to walk away from something that you’re good at. Ironically, the military life is incredibly secure. Every one of your needs is taken care of—finances, medical, structure. I never had the courage to leave that bubble. Even though I was known for being physically courageous, I was a coward about pursuing the life I really wanted. But I finally did it. I spent the last two years in acting school. I’m gonna be a movie star, mate.
What's your greatest struggle right now?"  Being honest with myself about deep, existential stuff."  What stuff exactly?"  Aw man, you're a cunt. I've had 8 glasses of wine."
Yesterday I found a penny in the park, and now it’s in my pocket.
It’s a very transformative time. Pluto is in Capricorn right now, so some revolutionary energy is hitting my chart.
The downtime is tough. It can be stressful when you go two weeks without work, and there's nothing ahead on the schedule, and you log onto Facebook and see all the stuff other people are doing. And a lot of times it feels like I'm not building anything permanent. It's relatively easy to get gigs when you're thirty-something, but you don't see too many old guys in other people's bands. But being on stage is the happiest I ever feel. It feels great to have all those eyes on you and ears on you. There's a jubilation to being up there and working together as a unit to vibrate the air and make people dance. I was pre-law during my first two years of college. I'm sure if I'd been a lawyer, I'd feel a lot more secure. But then I'd be battling an even heavier type of depression."
I'm trying to find a way to be happy without being the best."
I want to be a doctor, but I can't pay tuition at the moment because I support my parents back in Egypt. But in six months, I will have my license to work for a car service, which should give me enough money to also go to school."
I wanted to combine my love of acting with my love of baking, so I'm making a web series about a Pie Lady who bake things and go on quirky adventures. Think Pee Wee's Big Adventure meets a baking show, with a 1950's twist." Actually quite an accurate description: 
She's really hungover right now." It's true."
I want to be a porn star but I think it would embarrass my mom too much."
I wouldn't even have gone outside today if there had been something in my pantry."
I didn't become a lawyer until the age of 37. I was the manager of a power plant and decided I needed a change."  What has been your greatest moment of glory as a lawyer?"  Last year I had a case against an especially obnoxious attorney who thought for sure he was going to win. He was especially vicious toward my client, and the whole time he strutted around like he was in an episode of Law and Order. And I beat him."
No matter how much we tried to help my brother, he wouldn’t quit. We tried being there for him. Then we tried to throw money at the problem. We tried to set him up with rehab, doctors, psychologists, even a job. Then eventually we just sort of threw up our hands and stopped associating with him, thinking that the alienation might shock him into changing. I hadn’t spoken to him for two years when he killed himself.
Whenever someone tells me to feel guilty, I assume they're trying to program me."
Every time I try to make a friend, I try too hard and come off as irritating."
My mom found some satanic stuff in my journal and it really freaked her out."
After I finish my shift at the bakery, I start my shift at Starbucks. I work 95 hours per week at three different jobs. One of my sons graduated from Yale, and I have two more children in college. And when they finish, I want to go to college too. I want to be a Big Boss. I'm a boss at the bakery right now, but just a little boss. I want to be a Big Boss."
I'm trying to keep psychological vampires from sapping my life force."
She was always on edge. I remember one time my brother and I got in a fight, and my mom wanted him to apologize and give me a hug, so she was shaking him violently, screaming: ‘Give her a hug! Give her a hug! Give her a hug!’ When he wouldn’t do it, she threw him on the floor. Then one time when I was five years old, she wanted me to brush my hair because the social worker was going to see me that day. But I didn’t want to brush my hair. So she grabbed the brush, and brushed my hair so hard that I’ve never used a brush since.Do you ever feel like your mom?I do. I’m always having to pray about that. I take medicine for anxiety. My adoptive mother always reminds me that we’re two different people, and there’s nothing that says I have to end up like my mom. So I just have to keep praying. Whenever I feel like I’m getting really mad, I just try to cry instead of yell.
When I turned eighteen, I had the right to contact my birth mother, but my parents warned me not to do it. I called her anyway. When she got on the phone, it sounded like she was in a manic phase. She didn’t take responsibility for anything. She kept saying that I’d been brainwashed, and that ‘those people’ were not my parents, and that everything was the fault of the social workers. She had this edge in her voice. It gave me flashbacks to being yelled at and being hit by brooms. After we got off the phone, I decided that some doors are supposed to stay closed.
How do you know each other?" We don't."
My mother was a housekeeper and my father was a janitor. They told me that as long as I made good grades, I’d have everything they didn’t have. But I’m having trouble finding something that will interest me and satisfy them. So right now I’m undeclared.
When you first come out of the gate, you feel like a young rock star. You look at the work of other people and think: ‘I can do it better.’ But the more you learn, the more your ego plummets, because you realize that those people had their reasons for everything, and you realize how much work it takes to be great. I was looking through some of my old portfolios, and the execution wasn’t nearly as great as I believed at the time. But there were some pure ideas in there. I had a fearlessness back then that I’d love to rediscover.
What's your biggest fear?" Growing old alone. Or being covered by insects."
He leaves electrical equipment on all over the house."
I’ve watched a lot of people who did worse than me in art school go on to have their own shows, and I’ve decided that some people just know how to make moves. I always hoped that after I graduated, someone would discover me, but it doesn’t really work that way. You have to network and create opportunities, but I’m not good at that, because I get nervous and overly quiet in social situations. I normally end up getting discouraged, and going back to my basement to paint.
What's been your greatest accomplishment in life?" Well, I haven't done any big things, but I've done a bunch of small things. I grew my junior college speech club from four members to twenty two members, I got to see Yosemite in the snowfall, I got my first dog four years ago he's a beautiful beagle named Buddy. Let's see I built a house two miles from my job, I sang in a show tunes choir, and I just finished directing a stage version of Charlie Brown's Christmas, but with drag queens."
I kind of miss the pressure that I used to put on myself."
I’m trying to figure out how to control magnetic ferrofluids more precisely. They could potentially be used to direct drugs in the body, resulting in more targeted and less harmful chemotherapy.
My name's Kayhan, but I go by "Lefty.'"
I want to be the biggest graphic designer in New York. But first I've got to figure out how I can afford to live here."
I want to be a cop, but I don't share that very often with people in my neighborhood. I don’t want them to look at me differently. The police around here seem to work under the assumption that you’re a criminal. You get asked for your ID in front of your own building. You get asked where you’re going. You get asked if you have drugs. You tell them the truth, but it gets misconstrued, like you’re trying to cover something up, and they ask if they can search you. When I went to school in Riverdale, I got to see how differently the police acted there. If they see you walking, it’s like: ‘Oh. He’s just a kid from the neighborhood.’
I went to high school in a much nicer neighborhood. I played on the basketball team and we went to the state championship, so everyone treated me like a king. I never wanted to tell them where I lived.
I'm trying to get my work-family balance perfected because he's coming up on thirteen. And I remember that I had to deal with a lot of issues when I was that age."
Do you know what you want to be when you grow up?" A dolphin saver."
I'm doing my dissertation on medieval literature. I feel a sense of wonder and awe whenever I study old manuscripts. It's like I'm holding communion with readers from centuries ago. You don't really get that from a Kindle."
Mom is visiting from Barbados. This is her first time seeing snow."
I’ve lost count of how many foster homes that I’ve stayed in. It seemed like I would move every six months, because they didn't like me or I didn’t like them. I pushed a lot of people away and I burned a lot of bridges. But I’m the 9th of 12 children. I was the only one to go to college. I don’t have any kids. No crazy ex-boyfriends. And I turned out OK because of the people in foster care who didn’t go anywhere when I tried to push them away.Anyone in particular?There were a lot. But there was a counselor at one of my group homes named Jenelle Bugue. And when I woke up crying at 3 AM because I felt like nobody loved me, she would sit with me and tell me that she cared about me, and she wasn’t going anywhere. And she'd tell me that God cared about me, and that God wasn’t going anywhere.
I saved up enough to move into a studio. I’ve got my own spot now. It’s better than any of the foster homes I’ve ever lived in. Because when I turn the key in that door, it’s mine.
I’d been doing nothing but drinking for months on end, so I was getting pretty despondent. Then one day, a guy walked by with a hand truck, and dropped off two big boxes of books for anyone to take. I decided to set up a bookstand. I got a folding table, and three milk cartons, and set up right across the street. Pretty soon, more people were bringing me books, and I would sell them for $1 apiece. I had a pretty cool selection. I even had books from the 1800’s. But I sold them all for just $1. I called my business The Book Worm. I had a logo and everything—a little worm with reading glasses. I didn’t make much money. Just enough for food and some drinks, but it increased my self-esteem 10,000 percent. I never thought I’d be running my own business. I was drinking less and everything. But somebody took my folding table, so I’m out of business until I can find a new one. It sounds kind of ridiculous, but the whole business hinges on a folding table.
When I was in college, I felt like I had all of this creativity and potential, and I felt like all the papers and projects were holding me back from doing what I really wanted to do. Now I'm realizing that they were the main thing motivating me to do work."
When I was in college, I felt like I had all of this creativity and potential, and I felt like all the papers and projects were holding me back from doing what I really wanted to do. Now I'm realizing that they were the main thing motivating me to do work."
My wife and I were both on the six figure plan. I was thinking that if I could get to $100,000 a year, I’d be all right. I studied information systems and economics in college. I had a decent paying job at the 311 call center. Every morning I’d wake up early then fall back asleep on the subway. It was like that Groundhog’s Day movie. The ‘deferred life plan’ wasn’t working for me. Everyone kept telling me that all I needed was another master’s degree, or another certification, but I was done with it. So I quit my job and decided to be a musician. I turned off the TV. I turned off the radio. I devoted myself full time to music. I’d never played an instrument before, so I found some YouTube videos that taught me basic chord progressions on guitar and keyboard. I was really bad for a long time. I wondered if I’d made a mistake. But when I listened to the early work of famous musicians like Dr. Dre, they weren’t that good either. I thought: ‘I’m just as smart as them. And they were like me once. So if they got there, so can I.’ I started driving a cab so I could control my own hours. I’d get off at 2 AM and make music until 5 AM, but I’d still wake up happy because life had a purpose now. I called my first album ‘Better Than Fantastic,’ because that’s how it felt. I’ve handed out 10,000 of them. I give one to everyone who rides in the cab.
She helps me with my math homework. When I run out of fingers to count on, she lets me use her fingers too.
I grew up in the Dominican Republic with my grandfather and grandmother. Neither of them had any education. Our house had one bedroom for six people. It was half-concrete and half-wood. When it rained outside, it rained inside. I earned most of the money in the house by shining shoes and selling peanuts. I came to America when I was 14, and I told my grandparents that I was going to save up enough money to buy them a new house. I worked at a carwash for four years, and by the time I was eighteen, I had $20,000 saved up. I told my grandparents to start looking for materials because we were about to start building. Then that December, they both got hit by cars, two weeks apart, on the same corner. I almost went crazy."
My children's father was physically and emotionally abusive, so by the time I left him I had very low self-confidence. I needed something to boost my ego. One day I saw some firefighters handing out recruitment material on the street so I decided to give it a try. All the female recruits trained together, because we had to work harder than the men to pass the test. We trained for six months, three hours a day. I'd go straight from my job to the training sessions. I'd bring my kids with me, and when it was my turn to do the drills, the other women would take turns passing them around. At the end of the six months, I was 120 pounds of solid mass, and I passed the test easily. I never became a firefighter, but those women are still my friends."
This is our first date. We met on a dating site." What was your username?" Whatever-you-want."
Instead of telling me that things weren't working out, she cheated on me, then told me about that."
Today's the due date. I gained more weight during the pregnancy than she did. Seriously, I gained 40 pounds."
He got really drunk last night and tried to boil water in a plastic pot." I wasn't that drunk. And the pot had metal components."
I wanted to be a top chef, but I work in the back washing dishes."
Thanks to everyone who participated in HONY For The Holidays this year! As always, we really enjoyed seeing the pictures coming in on Christmas Eve and Christmas. An extra special thanks to everyone who made room at their table for an extra guest. And apologies to anyone who was unable to be matched we had about 5x as many submissions as availabilities this year. Hope everyone had a great holiday!
I organized the dance marathon in college, and it was such a fulfilling experience that I decided I wanted to go into nonprofit work. But I think I romanticized it too much. I don’t feel like I’m making a difference the way that I imagined I would. There’s a lot of grunt work. And there is a constant flood of people that we’re unable to help. I remind myself that I chose this path, but then I still feel ticked that I’m making a nonprofit salary. And then I feel guilty for being ticked about it. I see people making lots of money selling purses, and I feel angry about it. But then I remember that I love purses, so I shouldn’t complain.
I used to have a walking cane with an iron pipe inside. But one day this guy called me a bad name, and he looked like he was reaching in his pocket, so I stroked him with my cane. I thought I'd killed him. So now I just use a regular cane."
I took a college physics class when I was a sophomore in high school."
Do you remember the greatest day you've ever spent together?" I'd say Christmas Eve in Kabul when we drank that bottle of champagne at the French restaurant, and you got drunk for the first time." I was going to say the time we were in South Africa during the World Cup and we went on that safari in the park near Botswana, and we came up on an oasis and every type of animal was there at the exact same time."
We met in Afghanistan."
What’s your greatest struggle right now?I’m my only source of entertainment.
Today in microfashion
I asked for her photo, and she said: Absolutely not, I haven't done my hair yet."  I tried to tell her she looked fine, but she said: I own a hair salon. I can't be photographed like this. No shoe salesman is going to be photographed in a run over pair of Nikes. Come back in 30 minutes. So I came back in 30 minutes.
My father passed away this year, so I've been trying to be a dad to my eleven year old brother. I'm his emergency contact at school now, so whenever something is wrong, or if he's sick, it's up to me to take action. And I'm going to have to teach him about sex soon. One day he's going to ask me why two people are on top of each other. Do I just say it, or do I lead up to it with baby steps?"
I'm breaking open geodes!"
We renewed our wedding vows on our 50th anniversary at a small church in Tuscany. It was the best day of our lives. The church was full because it was communion time, and the priest couldn't speak a word of English, and the moment we walked out the front doors, the bells tolled."
My mother and I lost our apartment when the landlord raised the rent. She went to live in my aunt’s attic in New Jersey, but there were too many stairs there, so I had to go to the homeless shelter. Most of the people at the shelter have addiction problems and mental issues. I’m living with people that I never thought I’d have to live with. The M35 is the only bus that goes to the shelter. Disabled people are supposed to get on first. But as soon as it gets to the stop, everyone rushes in until it’s full, and the bus driver is too intimidated to say anything. A lot of times it leaves without me.The man in the photo has requested that funds not be raised for him. He is in the process of finding a place with his brothers and would like to figure out his living situation on his own, but he thanks everyone so much for their well wishes and thoughts.
When given a choice between something adventurous and something conventional, I always tried to choose the most adventurous thing." Do you remember the most frightened you've ever been?" After my second miscarriage, I was worried that I'd waited too late. But I ended up having three children, at the age of 40, 41, and 43."
I'd like to give back one day, but I'm being self-centered at the moment. Because that's what it takes to succeed."
I have $100,000 of student loan debt. I could have gone to a cheaper school, but I thought: "This is my dream and this is what I want to do and I'm going to do it.' I saw that I had thirty years to pay it back, so I thought: 'That's manageable.' Now it's like I have a second rent to pay every month."
It's a constant barrage of surprises."
My sister died of Leukemia when she was four. The day she died, my mom called my dad at the office and told him he needed to come to the hospital. He told her that he couldn't find anyone to drive him, so she was there alone when my sister died. That was the beginning of the end of their marriage. Everyone copes in different ways. He coped by not showing up. There was a popular song at the time called Donna, and that was my sister's name. Every time it came on he left the room."
What's your greatest struggle as a parent?" Just getting information out of her about how she's doing. Her mother and I got divorced, so it's been a tough year."
I'm on my way to see Santa!"
Her name is Butch."
I met my wife at Disney World, while we were acting in a stage production of Finding Nemo." What was your role?" I played Marlin, Nemo's dad." And her?" She was Nemo."
I work 45 hours a week, so I feel like I'm missing so many milestones. The first time he ever reached for someone, it was his babysitter."
I broke his nose in a mosh pit."
I smoked weed for the first time when I was eleven. By the time I was twelve, I was doing coke with my older friends on the weekends. I started taking Vicodin as a teenager when my tonsils were removed. When I ran out, I started buying Oxycontin, then moved onto heroin because it was cheaper. I just snorted it for awhile, because I was scared of needles, but eventually it stopped working and I wanted to feel that rush again. I got up to 30 or 50 bags a day. I was driving a dealer around, so I got it for cheap. After awhile, I wasn't even doing it to feel good anymore. I just did it so I wouldn't feel sick. I started stealing from my family, and doing other things that I don't even want to talk about. If I didn't have any, I'd just sit in bed all day, too anxious to lay down, but too tired to stand up. I've been off it for 15 months now. I stopped when my best friend died. I'm actually going to get my methadone refilled right now."
I met Santa at my mom's office party and I gave him a piece of candy."
I was married to a woman when I met him." Why did you marry a woman?" Because I thought being gay was a choice. Until the honeymoon."
My father's back in the Dominican Republic, so my mother's had to raise my brother and me on her own. She works as a cleaner. Recently it's gotten even more difficult for her, because my grandfather passed away, and he had been helping us a little." Do you remember the happiest moment of your life?" For my fifteenth birthday, she bought me a make-up set and taught me how to use it. She painted my face, and she let me paint her face."
Do you know what you want to be when you grow up?" A train."
I got heartcrushed. She told me that she liked another boy while we were sitting in class, so I told the teacher that I needed to go to the bathroom, but I really just went and splashed water on my face."
He thought he was being called. I thought he was being brainwashed. I thought he was too young to make that decision. When I thought of him as a priest, it was hard for me to think of him as my brother. I didn’t want every conversation to be about God. I didn’t want to constantly feel guilty around him. But he’s been in seminary for a couple years now, and he hasn’t changed much. If anything, he’s even wiser and more mature. Even though he’s fifteen years younger than me, he’s always giving me advice.
He tells me random stories every night when we're falling asleep. Last night's story was about a chipmunk who felt lonely because he was the only chipmunk who liked flapper music from the 1920's."
What's your favorite thing about your husband?" He's very creative. He started a club for all the grandchildren called the Poop In Your Pants Club. They have annual meetings, an executive committee, and t-shirts."
I haven't taken it seriously so far, but I have plenty of time."
What’s the most heroic thing you’ve ever done?I was sitting on the stoop one day, and I saw these two guys from the neighborhood sneak up behind a lady and reach into her purse. I shouted at them to stop, and they turned to me and said: ‘You better mind your own business!’ I told em’: ‘This is my business! You’re making our block look bad.




There was a long period when I was pretty directionless, and she always had a way of putting a positive spin on things. Whenever I got down on myself, she could convince me that I was working for assholes and everyone else was an idiot.
I once crash landed a plane in a desert in Tunisia. I wasn't even the pilot. The pilot got hysterical and I had to grab the controls."
I'm not very good at science. We did an experiment in class where we measured the pH of water, but I messed it up." What happened?" I spilled the water on the computer."
I legally changed my name to Space. It's to remind me that the problems in your life are like stars. When you're up close to them, they can burn you. But when you see them with space between them, they are phenomenal specks of light." And I changed my name to Smiles!"
ATTENTION: HONY For The Holidays is an annual tradition where we match up people who have nowhere to go for Christmas with people who have an extra place, or five extra places, at their table. As someone who moved to this city without knowing anybody I know that holidays are the ABSOLUTE WORST. I think I spent my first Christmas Eve in New York at a 24 hour diner, because I didn't have the money to go home. If you think you're heading for a similar situation this Christmas, get in touch, and we'll set you up with some great food and good company. (Don't be shy this doesn't mean you don't have any friends. It just means that circumstances have conspired against you for the holidays.)And if you already have a happy holiday planned, please consider making room for one extra person.HONY For The Holidays is very carefully screened and organized by my girlfriend Erin. (God bless her angelic, senior-dog-rescuing soul.) She works very hard to match people up, and makes sure that everyone is acquainted beforehand so there are no surprises. It's a lot of work every year, so to make it easier on her, please only reply if you've given it some thought and are serious about participating.Please email: honyfortheholidays@gmail.comIf you'd like a place at a table, write GUEST in the subject lineIf you have a place at the table, write HOST in the subject lineInclude your approximate location and a little bit about yourself!If you can host, let us know how many people you can accommodate.Unfortunately, we are only able to match people in NYC. (Or close by.)Thanks everyone! Last year we had almost 100 matches and nobody had a bad experience. So take a chance and let's make it even more awesome this year.
She picked me up when I was hitchhiking 17 years ago. She was in a caravan of orange 1973 Volkswagen buses. It was the first car I saw. I wasn't even on the right side of the road yet. If I'd have been a minute later, I'd have missed her."




I'm trying to raise a thinking child in a world that is constantly telling him what to believe." How do you do that?" Travel and tell the truth."
I teach 11th grade."
Love is in the air.




She settled me down for a little while, but soon my demons caught up with me. I started getting bored, so I started going out in the evenings. Ever since I was young, I always had this fear that if I stayed home for the night, I was going to miss out on something. So I’d go out drinking, then I’d wake up the next morning with her wagging her finger at me, and I’d feel bad, which would make me start drinking again. The final straw was when her six-year old son saw me drunk. He’d never seen me drunk before, and it scared him. So she broke up with me. That’s when I really went crazy. After a couple years, I checked myself into rehab. After I got out, I met a new girl. But after awhile my demons caught up with me.
He does math problems out loud in his sleep." She collects vintage teacups."
ONE LAST CHANCE for anyone who missed out on last week's fire sale. HONY BOOKS ARE $10.42 on Amazon until midnight tonight. The book retails for $29.99. Cheapest I've seen them in stores is $21. Amazon is actually taking about a $3 loss on the book, hoping you'll get greedy and round off your order with a family set of Snuggies or an industrial strength juice blender. But that's completely up to you.Use the coupon code BOOKDEAL25
I'm finding out that being an adult is a lot more than learning how to cook."
I tried being a commodities broker for awhile, but everything turned bad in 2008. Things got so bad that my boss checked himself into a hotel room and shot himself. I think he had lost something like ten million dollars in side trading. The weirdest thing was that the last few days were the happiest I'd ever seen him. Up until then, he'd always had such a sad, dour look on his face. He was constantly obsessing over how he could turn things around in the market. It was almost like he was stuck in a video game and he couldn't get out. I think he felt a lot of relief once he decided to end it. He'd never called me into his office for any other reason than to talk about the markets. But right before he died, he called me into his office to talk about Star Wars."
I'm the lead designer for Stetson hats. I've never met someone as crazy about hats as me. My goal in life is for everyone to understand that there is a hat out there for them. I'm not even selling hats. I'm selling romance."
I thought we had a close family until my grandmother died without leaving a will."
I don't think the library is threatened. Circulation of physical books has never been higher. But I wouldn't even agree that libraries are in the book business. I think they are in the information sharing business. And it just so happens that books have been the primary method of sharing information for half a millennium. The library isn't going to compete with the internet. It's going to be part of the internet. New York libraries have one of the greatest collections of information in the world, and one of our goals is to have it all curated, linked, and navigable." But once you've uploaded all your information, haven't you made yourself obsolete?" Absolutely not. Libraries provide a third space that is neither home or work, where people can come together and do thinking work. There will always be that need. And a third of New York depends upon the library system for not only free books, but free computers as well. This is especially important to immigrants, because you don't have to prove anything to get a library card."
We met on a dating site. My username was ‘JeffFromBrooklyn’ and his was ‘Philodemus’ which is the name of a 1st century philosopher or something. But what I noticed most was the part where he listed the films that he loved. Not only did he list great films, but he also chose specific scenes. He wrote things like: ‘In Casablanca, the look in Ingrid’s eyes when she sees Humphrey Bogart.’ Or ‘In Crimes and Misdemeanors, the desperation on Angelica Houston’s face when she knows the relationship is slipping through her fingers.’ As I read through the list, I noticed that each of the scenes he chose had something to do with intense love.
Just received one of those amazing phone calls that you'll always remember. For a book from last year to even make the list is unbelievable. You guys are amazing, thank you so much. Just so thrilled by this.
I work in the family business, which is tough. There's too much overlap. It can be hard to work together when you're still sore over something that was said at Thanksgiving."




I was never a good corporate animal. I lost a couple jobs. I could never keep my mouth shut."
My birthday is coming."
I always remember my mom having this hardness to her. Even if you were at the other end of the house, you could feel her presence. Not like a monster, but kinda. She needed everything to be just a certain way. She'd arrange the towels perfectly and didn't want anyone messing them up. She'd keep these detailed notes on money, and daily activities, and even her bowel movements. It was a diary of her anxieties. She always needed everything to be just a certain way, and she always had such a hard tone to her voice. But I loved her. I remember walking into her room shortly before she died. She was curled up in bed because she had very bad scoliosis, and she looked so small and vulnerable. And next to her on the nightstand was a picture of her as a little girl, standing with her mother. And it made me sad, because I knew that little girl had never wanted to grow up to be a ball of anxiety."
My dad had bladder cancer. He spent the final weeks of his life in a lot of pain. I remember one moment when he was lying on the couch, with less than a month to live, and my mom was in the kitchen trying to balance the checkbook. And she couldn't figure out where this one check came from. And she kept asking him about it. And he kept saying he didn't know. And she kept pushing him about this check, with this weird insistence, like it was the most important thing in the world, even though he was dying. I remember thinking that it was representative of their whole relationship. And my entire life."
I've been feeling a bit unaccomplished lately. I recently met a kid in his twenties who figured out a way to power lights in rural India by generating electricity from human shit."
I constantly worry if I'm doing OK with my boys. I spent the entire weekend with headphones on, working on a paper for graduate school, instead of spending time with them. I'm doing all this so that one day I'll earn enough to send them to college. But at the same time, they need help with their reading now."
I'm a city council member." What do you most hope to accomplish as a city council member?" My main goal is to even the playing field for minority and woman owned businesses. There are $20 billion worth of contracts given out by the city every year. Of those contracts, only 3% go to companies owned by minorities and women."
What's your biggest goal in life?" Getting my family out of the projects. I can't do it on eight dollars an hour though. But there aren't any other jobs out there. Either that, or I can't get to them." What's your biggest weakness?" Alcohol. I spend more money on that than anything else. I'm about to go to rehab." Why do you drink?" Because I enjoy it, because I get bored, because I get frustrated. There's no rhyme or reason to it. I was sober for two years. But the day I got my job, I was so happy, I decided to celebrate with a beer."
We met on a camping trip. It was the week after junior year. I was the Vice President of the Ecology Club so I organized a trip to Patapsco State Park. We sat at the same picnic table for lunch, then we went hiking in the afternoon, and we ended up spending the night together. Well, I mean, we put our sleeping bags next to each other and held hands."
My wife and my granddaughter went to shop in one of those young people stores. I put on my santa hat so they could find me again."
I was about ten or eleven when I met my real father. We went to a wedding for a family member in Canada, and he was there. I was excited to meet him. I thought we'd go shopping, and go out to dinner, and hang out. But I guess he didn't know I was coming. Because when he saw me, he didn't even talk to me. He pulled my older brother aside, and told him that he didn't want me there. When my brother told me, I walked up and hit my father in the face. I actually broke his nose. My grandfather had been giving me boxing lessons."
Today in microfashion
I went to an all white elementary school. One time the teacher asked why we study Black History Month, and one of the boys raised his hand, pointed at me, said: "Because she's in the class.'"
There's a spot in front of the Pennsylvania Hotel that they let us sleep at night as long as we clean up after ourselves. I was sitting there the other night, when a man walked by and handed me a backpack. My other backpack had just broken, and so it was exactly what I needed. I thought "That's a blessing.' Good things happen to good people. You really do catch what you throw."
I'm a square peg in a world of round holes."

I've got five haters. Everyone else loves me."
Someone made my words look pretty.
:



I've been here for three hours. I'm just killing time. My mother died last week, and I'm waiting for the court to call so I can pick up the death certificate. It was supposed to be ready this morning."
I remember seeing this man on a subway platform a few years back, singing New York, New York"  at the top of his lungs. Stepped onto a subway yesterday, and there he is singing the exact same song.
I used to be obsessed with cooking. It was all I thought about. I did cooking shows on the BBC. I wrote 27 cookbooks. I wrote a whole cookbook just about garlic. Then one night, I was editing the proofs for my 27th cookbook, when I picked up a marker and drew a mermaid on a piece of scrap paper. I looked at that mermaid, she looked at me, and I never thought about cooking again. Ever since that moment, I've thought about nothing but art. I was sixty years old when I made the switch. I'm not sure what caused it. It was either menopause, a psychotic break, or a muse bit me on the bum!"
A whole art movement has sprung up around me. I have a tribe."
We just won a national monetary policy competition!" What was your policy?" It was a three pronged approach recommending data dependent forward guidance, continuing with accommodation because the balance of risk is weighted more heavily toward tightening too soon, and a modification to the longer run goal strategy to explicitly state the symmetric nature of the inflation target. Anyway. we beat Princeton!"
I’ve always been drawn to children with special needs. I had a bunch of stuffed animals when I was a kid, and I’d sit them in rows and pretend to be their teacher. There was one bear named Moscow who had a broken eye and ripped ear, and I’d always make sure that the other animals were especially nice to him. So I knew early on that I wanted to be a special education teacher. This is a photo of the first play group that I organized outside of class. I was teaching at the time, and a lot of my parents were telling me that their children weren’t socializing with other members of the family, and it was very painful for them. So I organized an after-school playgroup in my basement. I’d work with the children on their interaction skills, while the mothers had a support group upstairs. The support group was very important for them. It’s very hard to be the parent of a special needs child. Your child develops at a slower pace than his peers, and you’re constantly hearing other parents say: ‘Mine is sitting. Mine is talking. Mine is crawling.’ And with each missed milestone, it’s difficult not to grieve the child that you didn’t have.
I'm trying not to hate my body. I love my hair and my hands, but everything else I wouldn't mind switching out."
I've got an idea for an exercise machine that's going to smoke the whole exercise machine market. It's called the Super Flow Flex 360 Infinity. It synchronizes you and lines up all your molecules to propel you into an inner dimension. It will literally take you out of this world. I've even got a slogan: "Super Flow Flex, better than sex.'"




I'm just giving you a little taste of my energy right now. I'm not even full fledged. You can say that I'm a little bit of a holy man. I've seen a lot of miracles." What's the biggest miracle you've ever seen?" One time a wild sparrow landed on my shoulder and sang while I played the drums."
I'm terrible at journaling. But I do it anyway, because I think that maybe one day I'll write something that I didn't know before, and suddenly it will all make sense."
I'm trying really, really hard to be authentic. Sometimes I'm successful, but other times I overthink it and a lot of bullshit comes out."




TWELVE HOURS LEFT to get a HONY Book for $10.50. The coupon codes expire at midnight tonight. For three days every year, Amazon and Barnes and Noble sell HONY Books for 65% off, which means they take a loss on the book and sell it for about $3.50 below the WHOLESALE cost. (The book retails for $29.99). So for three days every year, I remind everyone of this, and we plunder with abandon. The HONY Book was #1 on Amazon for the whole weekend. That’s just crazy for a book that’s been out for 14 months. Thanks so much for the support, everyone. This will be my last post about the deal, I promise. Hope you love the books. $10.50 HONY BOOKS:AMAZON: Coupon Code: HOLIDAY30BARNES AND NOBLE: Coupon Code: BFRIDAY14-$6.29 LITTLE HUMANS (For Kids 6 and Under)AMAZON: Coupon Code: HOLIDAY30BARNES AND NOBLE: Coupon Code: BFRIDAY14Lastly, if you’d prefer a signed copy, there are signed copies right now in every Barnes and Noble Store. They’ll be available for at least the next few days. I drew dinosaurs on the title page.
I feel powerful."
I teach photography to kids in the Bronx. I try to emphasize the importance of not overthinking your work. If something makes you curious, shoot it. If something makes you feel an emotion, shoot it. I don't ever want them to doubt themselves, so I tell them to be spontaneous and not worry about making mistakes. But truthfully, I've never been able to work that way."
I'm trying to be more confident, I guess yeah."
Today in microfashion
What's your favorite thing about your mom?" She's nice." What's an example of a time when she was nice?" One time when I was little, she got me a red power ranger that I really wanted even though she didn't have enough money, and that made me feel really good."
I want to drive a snow plow so I’ve been watching a lot of YouTube videos about construction vehicles. Construction vehicles are built a lot like people. The steel is like the bones and if you look at a bulldozer, it looks like it has shoulders and elbows and wrists. He’s the top of his class in math, and second in reading. It’s a challenge to let him mature at a pace I want him to versus the pace that he wants to. We’re having to learn that even if you have a good response, it can sometimes be best to just listen.
What's your proudest accomplishment?" Getting rid of my complexes."
My mom died the week she was supposed to retire. I think she died of sheer exhaustion. So I decided I was going to live my life in the present, and not focus on money. I just wanted to know myself and live life accordingly. I never thought about the future. So I find myself, at my age, having to focus on money."
My mother would never tell me who my father was. My whole life, I assumed that he lived in the Dominican Republic. But when I was fourteen, my aunt told me that he lived just a few miles away. I was so mad at my mother for not telling me. It was the angriest I’ve ever felt. My aunt set up a meeting between me and my father. He came and picked me up. He looked a lot like me, and he cried when he met me. He took me for ice cream and drove me around the neighborhood. He asked me about school, and told me that he wanted to see my drawings, and told me how proud he was of me. He talked to me about girls, and told me all about his baseball career, and told me how he wished things could be different. We got pretty close over the next two years. Every weekend we’d go to the park and play baseball. Then one day he stopped showing up. My aunt told me that his new wife wouldn’t let him see me anymore. I haven’t talked to him since.
I need two million dollars."
Everyone around me is in a relationship except for me. Whenever someone says they like me, instead of saying "I like you too,' I'll say something like: 'I know, I like me too.' I maybe do it to show that I'm confident, and I love myself, and I'm not insecure.'"
The competition is getting fierce.
I've been training myself in clinical psychology. It's been more transformative than all the LSD, shrooms, and Burning Mans that I've ever done!"
We took a ten day trip to the Dominican Republic, and my plan was to propose at the very end. I'd already called her parents and everything, so I couldn't come home without proposing. On the day we were scheduled to go back home, we took one last romantic walk on the beach, right at sunrise. Everything was lining up perfectly. I led her to the most secluded spot I could find. The sunrise was beautiful. There was only one other couple on the beach. Then right before I proposed, the one other guy on the beach got on one knee and started proposing to his girlfriend."
When I was fourteen, I had a friend over to my house and we were sitting on the floor of my closet making jewelry. My mom poked her head in the room and asked us what movie we wanted to see that night, and we said "Brokeback Mountain.' She said we were a little too young for that, and suggested an animated movie instead. My friend started laughing at my mom and calling her lame. I joined in, even though I actually really liked animated movies. When my mom came back with the showtimes for Brokeback Mountain, I noticed that she was sniffling and her eyes were red. We saw Brokeback Mountain that night, but I've never wanted to watch it again."
I'm an unemployed single father, and I feel like I've been written out of the economy. I've got a PhD in Microbiology and Immunology, but I can't get a job in teaching, medical writing, or research. They showed us a video in the food stamp office about finding a job. It showed some guy bagging groceries, and he said something like: "People assume I'm not smart because I'm bagging groceries, but I've got a bachelors degree and some graduate school experience!' I think they were telling me to lower my expectations.'"
What's your favorite thing about your father?" His loyalty." When did you most appreciate that loyalty?" At the end of every semester."
He did tell me once that he had cheated on his last girlfriend. So I thought: "Since he's being open about it, I can trust him.'"
Do you remember the time you felt proudest of your daughter?" Violetta won a karate tournament once. And she wasn't even supposed to be in the tournament. There were only 16 slots, and most of the girls had prequalified so Violetta had to fight her way into the wildcard slot. Once she qualified, her chances were very small. There was this one girl from Connecticut who was just destroying everybody. She was really tall, and she'd already won three of the four events. The only event left was sparring, and she cruised through her first matches pretty easily. When she came up against Violetta, she'd already pencilled in a victory in her mind. But Violetta scored a point on her early, and the girl got rattled. Then Violetta scored another point, and her eyes started to get puffy. When Violetta scored a third point, the girl faked an injury, and her dad had to come out of the stands to convince her to get off the mat. When Violetta went up by four points, the girl just had a total meltdown and couldn't finish the match. Now I'm not saying that we were happy the girl started crying, but we were proud of Violetta."
I lost my daughter because of my drinking. I’ve been sober for five years, but I was always drunk when she was growing up. At school events when all her friends had their parents with them, she was always having to explain why her dad wasn’t there. It was embarrassing for her. She told me that I ruined her life.When’s the last time you talked to her?I texted her on her birthday. She texted me on mine. But then she got a new phone. I left her mother a message, asking for the new number. But I never heard back.
We were dating for three or four years, off and on. I decided that I didn’t want a serious relationship, but every time I tried to break up with her, she’d threaten to kill herself. Like if I didn’t answer her text messages for a few days, she’d send me a video of her swallowing a bunch of pills, then later she’d tell me that she threw them all up. I was at a business meeting one night—it turned out to be a pyramid scheme, but I didn’t know it at the time—and she started sending me text messages again, saying she was going to hurt herself. It was like the fifth time she’d done it, so I didn’t even answer. That night she hung herself with a dog leash.
I’m pretty conservative. And I have a job where I’m making good money, so it’s going to be tough. But my wife and I are quitting our jobs, buying a 2003 Dodge Cargo Van, putting a bed in the back, and driving to Argentina. Don’t post this until I tell my boss.
The night my grandmother died, I found out that the person I thought was my sister was really my mother.
They're staying with their aunt right now." What do you tell them when you talk to them?" I just tell them that it's temporary. That I'll be out of the shelter soon, and we'll all go home."
My father never grew up. He was always in and out of jail. And if you listen to him talk, he acts like he was some sort of kingpin, but he wasn’t. It’s like he’s still a teenager in his head. He even uses the same words as 30 years ago. He says things like: ‘When I was back in my groove, ain’t nobody used to tell me nothing.’ And he can’t accept responsibility for anything. He says things like, ‘If my family treated me better, I wouldn’t have to do drugs.’
My daughter was born four days ago. I'm just trying to wake up every morning, have a coffee, and not think about smoking weed or hanging out." What's your biggest fear?" Not being somebody she looks up to."
It's been a bumpy road."
I grew up in Jerusalem. When I was a child, I loved to paint. My father told me that he was going to send me to the biggest art academy, so that I could become a famous painter. But he died before I came of age, so I started making jewelry to support myself. I designed medallions and amulets for Orthodox Greek patriarchs to wear on their robes. I became quite known in the Old City, but when I moved to America, I had to start over. When I first arrived, I decided to try to sell my jewelry to a fancy jewelry shop on 47th Street. My friend told me: ‘You are crazy. Why would they buy from you? You are nobody.’ But I told him to watch me. I went into one of the big stores one of those stores with 5 or 6 million dollars worth of jewelry in the window and I told them: ‘I have some designs I want to show you.’ And the owners laughed at me. I told them: ‘You wouldn’t be laughing if you knew who I was.’ And they stopped laughing at me. Then they asked to see my work. They ended up buying all five of my moldings, and they told me to come back whenever I had something new.
Do you remember the happiest moment of your life?" When I won the lottery. Last four digits of my son's student ID number: 0-8-0-0. I played it every week!"
My children are 18, 17, and 15. And I think it’s just really starting to hit me that I’m about to lose them really quickly. I’m always thinking back and trying to figure out the ways that I might have been able to spend more time with them. Maybe if I’d been a little less concerned with cleaning up messes, or always cooking dinner, or going through the mail as soon as I got home from work. I don’t know… I just wish I’d been less ‘busy.’ When I was twenty, I left home and moved away to New York. I’d go home to visit my mother once a year, and each time she’d look a little older. I guess part of me is just afraid that my kids are going to do the same thing to me.
It’s tough to take the right steps when you grow up in this neighborhood. It’s hard to get up and go to school everyday because you see so many other kids who are dropping out, and they still figure out a way to handle their business. A lot of kids around here don’t get any support from their family. So everything is on them. If you have a backbone of support, it’s easy to take your time and go from A to B to C to D. But when you’re looking out for yourself, you’re in a hurry. You’re looking for a way to get from A to D.
I've been an electronics engineer for thirty years, but it's my dream to live on a farm. It was my dad's dream too, but he died before he could get out of the city. So I bought myself 40 acres out in Virginia. I'm about to hop on the Amtrak and head there now for a visit, but one day I'm going to move there for good. The property is a hippie's dream. It's got great energy. It's ten miles from a small town, and right next to the Blue Ridge mountains. It's partial wood, partial field. There's a small farmhouse. I'm going to raise chickens, live stock, and have a greenhouse. Only nine more years until retirement." What's your greatest weakness?" Procrastination."
I feel like my family uses the exchange of money as a substitute for real communication."
I met my dad for the first time when I was fifteen. I visited him in Trinidad for two months during the summer. He met me at the airport and acted like he missed me more than anything else in the world. He ran up to me and lifted me in the air and started kissing me and saying how much he missed me. He carried all my luggage, and gave me money, and stopped by the supermarket on the way home to buy me all this food. He was introducing me to his friends like he was so proud of me. He’d say: ‘Look at my beautiful daughter,’ and things like that. It actually got me imagining how nice it would be to have a dad. Then at the end of the day, he dropped me off at my grandmother’s house, and I only saw him two or three times for the rest of the summer. The last night I was with him, he got really drunk, and he told me that I’d been a mistake. He was laughing when he said it, like it was a joke, and I should think it was funny. I pretended like it didn’t bother me, but it did. I thought: ‘So is that why you never wanted to visit or talk to me all these years?’
Never laid a hand on her. And that was huge for me. Because it was always the first thing my dad did."
I've been a union ironworker for 34 years. One year until retirement. I've worked on the World Trade Center, Citi Field, Museum of Natural History, Trump Tower, Penn Station. My fingerprints are on so many buildings in this city, it's ridiculous."
What has been your proudest accomplishment?Surviving in America. I’ll be honest I crossed the border about eight years ago. I had no job, no money, no place to live. I spoke zero English. I started as a dishwasher, then eventually got a job working behind the bar. I taught myself English. Now things are going pretty well. I want to open up my own coffee shop one day. I just want my son to have it easier than I did.Were you scared when you were crossing the border?No. I had nothing back then. And it’s hard to be scared when you have nothing to lose.




I look up to my father more than anyone else. He taught me the value of hard work. He came over from India, and used all his savings to start a small clothing business. Then he took the money from the clothing business and opened up his own gas station. But when the economy got bad, his gas station went out of business. So he had to start driving a cab to pay the bills.Did he seem embarrassed to drive a cab after owning his own business?I don’t think so. I certainly wasn’t embarrassed to call him my dad.
My oldest son has a learning disability. Probably the saddest moment of my life was when he failed second grade. He’s smart, but he just has trouble getting information into his brain. Once it’s there, it’s there. When he finally understands something, he’ll understand it forever. But it just takes longer for him. When he was growing up, the hardest part for me was when he’d be afraid to tell me that he didn’t understand, because he wanted me to be proud of him.

I grew up on an island off the coast of Honduras, and I came to America on a banana boat when I was very young. I’m the superintendent for some of the apartment buildings around here. I always try to collect the clothing and junk that the tenants throw away, and every couple of months, I pack it into barrels and send it back to Honduras. I especially try to find medical equipment. If a crippled man in Honduras has nothing but a stick, a crutch will change his life.
What was your greatest moment of firefighting glory?A car went into the Bronx River upside down with two people trapped inside so we jumped in the river, broke the windows, cut the seat belts, and got them out. The water wasn’t too deep. Just about three or four feet. And by the time we got there, a passing jogger had already jumped in the river and gotten one of the people out. But we jumped in and got the other person out.
What do you feel most guilty about in life?Well, life’s not over yet. But as of now, I don't have anything saved up to leave behind for my family. And I wish I did. I stayed at home with my two daughters when they were growing up. They turned out great, so I’m happy with that. They’re such awesome girls. If they were here right now, you would love them. But I was home with them for ten years. And they were at school everyday from 8:30 to 4:30. I’m thinking that maybe if I had used that time more productively, I’d have something to leave them. I had my real estate license, so I could have been looking for business or networking with other brokers. Instead I usually came home and played guitar, or tried to write a song.
I’m trying to finish a short story for my writing class. I’m basing it on a couple that I saw on the subway a few weeks ago. Both of them were dressed in black, and they were leaning against each other so peacefully. They seemed to be in their own little world, even though the subway was packed. Of course the story needs to be interesting, so I gave her a really bad drinking problem, and made him feel morally obligated to stay in the relationship.
I'm a retired school principal. More than anything else, I wanted my students to understand just how big the world is. Because I didn't want them judging the world by the ten block radius around their house."
I'm coming up on five years of never missing a Sunday." How have you changed during those five years?" Before I met my creator, all I did was smoke and drink and party. Then five years ago, my aunt dragged me to church with her. I started following God, got off the streets, and stopped hanging out with my old friends. Church helped me to surround myself with people who were committed to changing themselves."
My favorite teacher is Miss Middleton. She's really nice. And she gives us treats on Friday unless you get 5 X's during the week. Sometimes I get X's for getting out of my seat or talking, but usually I only get three or four. And if you're having trouble with your homework, Miss Middleton lets you call her."
After the kids left the house, I decided to go to medical school and become a doctor. I was 48 at the time, and had been out of school for a long time. When I asked him if he thought it was a good idea, he said: ‘Sure. It’s your turn.’
I want to be a first grade teacher because I know a lot about first grade and second grade is kinda harder and you have to count with bigger numbers.
It was just me and my mom growing up. I'm her only child, so we were really close. I didn't tell her that I joined, because I knew she was against it. She thought it was too dangerous. I just came home one day, sat her down, and showed her my contract, and she got very upset. We didn't talk for months after that. Whenever I spoke to her, she'd answer with as few words as possible. She didn't talk to me until I was well into basic training, and I got to call home." What did she say during the phone call?" She asked me if I was eating OK, said she was proud of me, and she told me that she'd already booked her hotel for my graduation."
I wanted to be someone.
We did a cabaret show together back when we were younger. He was 29. I was 42. And we were both married at the time. He called me up twenty years later when he was passing through my town. We'd both gotten divorced. After we met for drinks, he leaned down and kissed me, and said: "I wanted to do that 20 years ago.' Then a semi-automatic drove by and honked the horn, I swear to God. It was all very exciting. I mean, I was a grandmother! So on our second date, I said: 'Before we order, I just want to let you know that I want to go to bed with you.' Then I took him home and we didn't leave for three days."
I’m pretty much a loser. I just got out of prison a month ago.What were you in for?Something stupid. I got really drunk and started fighting an off-duty cop that was trying to arrest me.Did prison change you in any way?Yeah, no more hard liquor. Only beer.
Last time we were photographed together, my alimony got doubled."
I did my undergrad in law in Australia, focusing on domestic criminal work. Then I moved to the Hague in The Netherlands to work for the office of the prosecutor in the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia. Then I worked for an NGO in Johannesburg that uses the South African constitution to enforce human rights. Then I went back to Australia to clerk for a justice of the supreme court. Now I’m here studying international criminal prosecution, though I’m considering switching to transitional justice.What’s the biggest crime you’ve ever committed?I’ve never been a constant in anyone’s life.
I think my father had always been a bandaid for a lot of my mother’s issues. She was quite insecure, but he was always reassuring her, bringing her cards and flowers, and coaxing her out of her shell. She never got back to herself after he died. She thought that anytime somebody wanted to visit with her, it was just because they wanted something or they felt bad for her. Which wasn't true, because she was very smart and interesting. She started drinking a lot, and if we went to visit her, a lot of times she'd just be staring blankly at the TV. We found her journal after she passed away. It was hard to read. She wrote things like: ‘My life is ashes.’ And, ‘My daughter only needs me for money.’
My dad used to pile 15 kids from the neighborhood into his station wagon and take us to the Yankees games. It wasn't very safe, they'd probably arrest him for it today. Even when he lost his job, and he couldn't afford the tickets, we'd still go to the games. He'd just pick the really bad games that not a lot of people wanted to go to, and we'd pull the station wagon up to the curb, and send my little brother to ask businessmen for extra tickets."
Ask me another question. Not that one, another. Another. I have no idea what to say. Is this going well? This isn’t going well. Can I phone a friend? What are you going to write about me?
I'm about to go to work. I'm an emergency room doctor and I work the 10 PM to 8 AM shift." What's been your proudest moment as a doctor?" Probably just the moment when I finally felt comfortable it took about three years, and one day it just kinda clicked. Starting a shift in the emergency room is like the feeling before a giant battle in a movie like Braveheart or Lord of the Rings. You just have no idea what's going to come through the door. Sometimes five serious cases can come in at the exact same time, and you have a lot of decisions to make, and you have to know exactly how long each procedure takes, and what can wait, and what can't. I think my proudest moment was when I finally stopped feeling nervous, because I'd reached a level of experience where I could make the correct decisions without thinking about them."
My dad was my English teacher in middle school. He taught me a lot, but it was embarrassing as hell. One time my sister and I made him a custom ringtone, and he forgot to put his phone on vibrate, so it starts ringing during class, and the ringer is my voice saying: "Daddy, pick up the phone! Daddy, pick up the phone! Daddy, pick up the phone!' It was awful."
So many of my friends seem happy with who they are, but I'm just not there yet."
I had a great life in Brazil. I was very close with my family, I had great friends, a wonderful job, a group that I sang with. But a long time ago, I left it all behind to follow a man. I was from a very Roman Catholic family in Rio de Janeiro. He was a Jewish man from New York. It all seemed very exciting. He was sweet. And cute. But I should have never followed him. I left behind happiness for something unknown."
I need to make it to the NBA so I can get out of the hood and help my mom."
I moved to New York to make music, and I thought I'd have done more by now. But I struggle with discipline. If I have a moment of inspiration, it's easy to ride that. I'll have the flash of a verse, or a chorus, or a melody, and I'll sit up all night writing it out. But if I can't finish it in one sitting, and I have to come back to it the next day, then it starts to feel like homework, and I just can't do it. I have a huge collection of songs that are a quarter finished."
I've been a concierge for twenty years." What's the craziest thing you've ever been asked for?" One time a 70 year old woman asked me if I knew where there was any vampire activity. Then she looked at me strangely, ran her tongue over her dentures, and said: "I like to get bit.'"
He's one day old. I still can't believe that he's real and that he came out of me."
I got a masters in mathematics from Columbia, and for twelve years I worked as an investor. I made good money the whole time. On some days I’d lose, but on most days I’d win, and every year I made good money. But then I got greedy. I thought I’d found a sure thing. There was a pharmaceutical company coming out with a new drug, and I got a tip that it was going to be approved by the FDA. And the sources who were telling me this had always been right before. So I bet everything. I thought: ‘I’m going to double my money really quick, and then I’m getting out. I’m going to use the money to start my own business.’ I even borrowed money to put into this stock. I was that sure. 99%. And the next day I got a call from my broker: ‘I don’t know what’s happening,’ he said. ‘It’s dropping fast.’ And sure enough, later that day they announced that the FDA had rejected the drug. Suddenly I’d lost everything, and I didn’t even own my apartment anymore. I couldn’t get out of bed for months. I stopped eating and dropped to 125 lbs. Then one day my girlfriend tells me, ‘If you don’t get out of bed, you’re going to die.’ So I got a job as a stock boy at a retail store. Twenty years later, I’m managing ten of those stores. I wish that I’d just become a stock boy in the first place.
My chihuahuas are at home."
I'm losing my eyesight. It's a condition called retinitis pigmentosa. It starts with your peripheral vision and moves inward. It's not too bad for me yet. Sometimes I don't notice when somebody is trying to shake my hand. And sometimes it can be hard for me to keep track of what line I'm reading. But I got the disease from my father, and he went completely blind in his 40's. So I try to spend as much time as possible looking at things like the colors of the leaves and cool cloud formations."
One time we were spinning with blankets on our heads and we spun into the TV!
Vonnegut said we live too long. He said: "You had your children. You wrote your book. Now don't be greedy.' Yet we all live with this fantasy of recuperation. We see an old photo of ourself, and we momentarily feel like that person again. We think: 'I'm going to get back to that place.' And we never get back there. But that desire gives us the ferocity to hold onto life no matter how bad it gets."
Kurt Vonnegut called me his best friend in print. You know why? Because we had a lot of fun together and I never asked him for a thing."
Sometimes it feels like I'm not a part of anything. There are so many people here, you'd think that I'd be able to make friends with one of them. But it always seems like everyone has got their own thing going on, or their own group of friends that they hang out with. Most weekends I just take a long walk, or go to a restaurant by myself. I've done some neat things alone, and I'm glad that I did those things, but I'm really getting to the point where I'd also like to experience things with other people. Everybody tells me: "You should do this,' or 'You should do that.' But nobody says 'Let's do this,' or 'Let's do that.'"
My parents had me young, so my grandmother raised me. She was already retired when I was born, and started working again just so she could provide for me. Her favorite thing to say is: ‘I’ve got your back.’ Whenever something really good happens, or something really bad happens, she will send me a card that says: ‘I’ve got your back.’ We live together, but she actually mails the cards to me.
I'm a classically trained singer in a culture that values classical music less and less."
My grandparents abused me because they hated my mother. I decided when I was eleven years old that either I was going to kill them, or they were going to kill me, so I went to school one day and told my teacher, and they placed me in a group home for nine years. That’s how bad it was. It was so bad, that even at eleven, I knew I had to get out and break the cycle.What cycle?The cycle of people taking out their feelings on their family.
It happened back in graduate school. For years, I was constantly questioning whether I'd done something to deserve it. I knew I was drunk, but I chose to walk home at night. I noticed he was following me. I noticed that he followed me into a coffee shop, and I could have stayed in that shop, but I chose to continue home. He pulled me into a car at knifepoint. I didn't tell anyone. Not even the police. I was an actress, so I just sort of thought I could act like it never happened. It was hard for me to continue performing, because when you're raped, you feel like you've been seen in a way that you shouldn't be seen, and the last thing you want to do is be seen anymore. You gain weight. You wear baggy clothes. It took me years of being in a rape support group to even get to the place where I can talk about it. But I'm in a great place now. I just finished self-producing a cabaret show. Not a sparkly one. It's a little dark. Well, dark and sparkly."
I’m trying to raise my daughter with the same values that I learned in Jamaica, but it can be hard to instill gratitude and appreciation when we are surrounded by such abundance. When I was growing up in Jamaica, every time I wanted something, my grandmother made me go through the same list of questions: ‘Why do you want it?’ ‘How much will it cost?’ ‘Is it going to make your life better?’ There wasn't enough money for things we didn't need, so we were always forced to ask those questions even for simple things like a new pair of shoes. The necessity of that ritual really helped create a deep appreciation for the things we had.’
My father came from Nicaragua and got a job as a construction worker. My mother immigrated from Puerto Rico and got a job as a cleaning woman. One day he was working high up on some scaffolding at an office building, and he saw her cleaning inside, so he knocked on the window. And here I am.
My dad’s out of rehab now and he claims that he’s sober and he’s even got my name tattooed on his arm which is kind of weird. He came up to me on the street recently and asked why I would never talk to him or answer his calls. He said that I’m selfish and that my mother has brainwashed me.So why don’t you want to talk to him?Because I know that a phone call will turn into an afternoon, and an afternoon will turn into every weekend, and I don’t want him to influence me until I’ve figured out who I am as a person. l don’t want to spend time with him until I have the "umph' to create this presentation of everything that’s happened, present it to him, and say: ‘This is what you did.’
I want to be a hematologist. That’s a blood doctor. Well not a blood doctor, exactly. But a doctor that finds cures for blood diseases.How’d you decide on that?We were dissecting frogs in class and learning about how the blood flows through the body. And I went home that night and wrote an essay. And it wasn’t like any other essay I’d ever done. Normally when I write essays, it takes me a long time, but this was the fastest essay I ever wrote. So the next day I was asking the teacher mad questions, and she was like, ‘You know you can get a job in this.’ And she pulled it up on the internet, and was showing me all about hematologists.
What are you proudest of in life?" I feed the pigeons and the rats when I have extra food."
I just came back from class. I’m in a continuing education program at a nearby college it’s helping hold the Alzheimer’s at bay and keeping me out of the nursing home. Today was Genetics And Epigenetics. Tomorrow is French New Wave Film. Friday is Sociology and Religion. It’s where I get most of my socialization, too. It’s a bunch of widows and widowers like me.Do you remember the saddest moment of your life?When my wife told me she wanted to go to hospice.Do you remember the greatest day you ever spent with your wife?We took a cruise in Antarctica, and the weather was great, so the captain took us deeper than he normally goes, and we were floating among the icebergs, and the seals were laying out in the sun, and I remember both of us agreeing that it was the greatest day.
It was a difficult pregnancy. I was in so much pain all the time and the doctors couldn’t tell me why. I thought it would get easier when he was born, but it got even more difficult. I knew even in the hospital that he was different because every moment that I wasn’t holding him, he would scream. He can barely sit still. He won’t sit still even to eat. I have to watch so closely at all times, especially when he’s around other children, because he can be a little too much for them. Other parents have been saying to me for so long that he’ll grow out of it. I’m convinced now that every child is different and that what applies to their children might not apply to mine. But we just keep praying and hoping he’ll grow out of it.What’s been your happiest moment as a parent?The first time he told me he loved me. He just kept touching my face over and over again, saying: ‘Love you. Love you. Love you.’
We talked about it four or five times, and our families certainly pushed for it, but we decided early on that we didn't want to have kids. There was too much we wanted to do. Since then we've formed our own company, made over 40 films together, worked in 60 different countries, and written 18 books eleven of them cookbooks, some of them bestsellers."
We met in 1944, and we didn't like each other. He was in uniform, I was an art student. I called him a fascist. But we met again a few months later when he was on furlough from the army. We were both vacationing at the same dude ranch. I was wearing my father's suede jacket, because he'd just passed away, and the sleeves were too long for my arms. And without saying a word, he walked up to me, and rolled the sleeves back a bit. And I thought it was such a sweet gesture."
Brandon,
I'm the teenage girl you met earlier today when I was walking with my dad and we talked for a little while about about my eating disorder, but I realized that I didn’t quite give the answers I felt were completely honest or were what I wanted to say. Thinking about it, what I really should have and wanted to say was that this whole experience of having an eating disorder has been complete shit, and it’s the hardest thing I have ever and probably will ever do. There’s no specific moment that has been particularly hard that my dad has helped me through, because the entire time it has just been an ongoing nightmare. 
If this is what you want for the caption, I could keep going into great depth about what it’s like having an eating disorder, portraying it in a multitude of metaphors and descriptions that would give people something meaningful to respond or react to. But even still, this probably wouldn’t come close to giving people an idea of how difficult, confusing, draining and indescribable this disease is. 
However, since this was originally about my dad and I, I wanted to say that another reason I can’t think of a specific time he’s helped, is because he has been here for me through all of it. The entire time, he has been trying his hardest to help me beat this, which I realize has been incredibly hard on him too, and I’m very appreciative and grateful for that. Whether you decide to use this (or part of) as the caption or not, thanks for reading it and allowing me to explain myself. By the way, would it be okay if you used the picture of our hands and left out my name? 
Thank you.
I don't know how to skateboard."
The whole block chipped in and got this snow blower because we don’t want any of the old timers having heart attacks from shoveling snow.
During one of her depressive episodes, my sister laid in bed so much that she developed bed sores, so I had to bathe her. She wasn't eating at the time, so she was all skin and bones. The saddest part for me was how easily she accepted it. For her whole life, she'd been so shy about anyone ever seeing her naked. But now she didn't even have the energy to care that I was washing her."
When my sister’s having a manic episode, she thinks she has superpowers. She’ll go outside and strip off her clothes. She’ll develop all these conspiracies about the government being out to get her, and she’ll think that something she’s done has made our whole family unsafe. Sometimes she thinks that I’m not me, but an avatar of myself, and I’ll have to do all these things to prove that it’s really me. One time she stole someone’s bike off the street because she thought she was in a movie and was in a race to the Statue of Liberty. Luckily someone stopped her and took her to the hospital. It’s hard to see her like that, and it’s hard to say that there’s anything nice about it, but then again, I can’t help but feel that she has a certain freedom that I envy when she’s having an episode. I feel like everyone’s a little crazy and we all walk around with this armor of sanity, and she’s just able to cast it off completely. I’d almost like to join her and run around the city if only she could keep it from spinning out of control.
Friends should be friends together, and play together, and not let another friend be lonely. They should make a game together, and have fun together, and not let them kick people or punch people. They should also watch fairy movies and play in the park.
The whole reason I joined the Marines was to get away from a bad situation at home. My older brother was one of the leaders of The Latin Kings gang, and he got sentenced to twelve years in prison. He actually got out of prison just as I was going through the Police Academy, and he even came to my graduation. You know what he told me one time when I visited him in prison, right before I deployed for Iraq? He told me: "I'm older than you. But you're my big brother.' That was so honest of him, it really fucked me up."
Before I joined the Marines, I used to perform in high school musicals and sing Doo Wop on the subways it was the Boyz II Men era, so that was ‘in.’ When I came back from Iraq about ten years ago, I was really depressed and almost homeless. I was too afraid to go out and socialize so I met my wife on Match dot com. I went through the Police Academy and became a cop, but I always remembered how much I loved performing, and wondered what it would have been like to have pursued that life. So during my time off, I started trying to be an actor. I’ve been to hundreds of auditions over the last eight years. I did some Off Broadway. Some Off Off Broadway. I got a lot of ‘Under Five’ roles that’s what they call roles that have less than five lines. But then recently I auditioned for a recurring role as Detective Alvarez on the show Gotham. I was in Puerto Rico, celebrating my 39th birthday, when I got a call from my manager. She said: ‘I need you to sit down.’ I said: ‘What’s going on?’ She said: ‘Are you ready for this, Detective Alvarez?’ I said: ‘What are you talking about?’ She said: ‘YOU’RE DETECTIVE FUCKING ALVAREZ.’ I just started crying and hugging my kids and thanking my wife for never giving up on me. With this role, I might not have to be a cop much longer.
He likes to take the lead, so I've learned to lead more quietly."
I want to build a bridge.How do you build a bridge?If you want to build a bridge it’s going to take a long time and it might be hard because your employees might not be as interested in building the bridge as you are. You have to think about what kind of bridge you want to make. One type of bridge is a suspension bridge and another type of bridge is an arch bridge. The Brooklyn Bridge is a suspension bridge and it was built by John Roebling and his family and that’s all I remember from second grade. And the bridge has to be strong because the water can rise and push up the bridge. I’d maybe like to build a bridge in Wisconsin because there are a lot of people in Wisconsin who might not have bridges but I don’t really know where Wisconsin is.
I live a very solitary life. My wife died fifteen years ago. All my friends are gone. I try to keep busy. I read, I walk, I watch television. Do you remember the time in your life that you felt most afraid? The first day I arrived in America. I had been a freedom fighter in Hungary. And one day my neighbor told me that I’d been reported and I needed to leave immediately she was a communist police officer, but also my friend, so she told me to run. My wife did not want to leave her family behind, so she refused to come with me. When I arrived in this country, it was the first time that I’d ever been completely alone.
I was worried the divorce was going to destroy my relationship with my children, but it actually ended up improving it. Before the divorce, I was a working father. Work always took priority. I knew that if I had to skip a soccer game for a work meeting, my wife would be able to take the kids to the game. After the divorce, I only got to see my kids every Tuesday night, every other Monday, and every other weekend. It completely changed my mindset I went from being a working father to being a parent. If there was a work obligation during my time with the kids, I had to change it. I couldn’t spend weekend mornings at the gym anymore, because that would cut into my time. I began cooking dinner on my nights so we could all eat together. The time restraints that the divorce put on me caused me to completely realign my priorities.
Seen in Washington Square Park
Seen in Washington Square Park
Audrey Hepburn."
The Heist
The Champ
I think if we were all being honest with ourselves, very few of us ever meet The One. The vast majority of people just marry because they’re ready. I never really felt like I met The One. I don’t think my wife is The One. I mean, she’s a nice lady. But I don’t think she’s The One for me. And I don’t think she’d mind me saying that, because if she was being honest, I don’t think she’d say I am The One for her either.
I think I was angriest when my father died. The saddest and the angriest. The saddest because he was gone, and I selfishly wanted him back. Angriest because it made me think about how we all have to die and that really made me angry.Angry at what?God, The Spirit, whatever it is that brought us here. I do believe in something. I don’t know what. But I don’t think we’re here because of some accidental chemical reaction. But life is like some toy, or some piece of candy, that God hands to the baby just to snatch it away. I mean, c’mon, did you really have to make us suffer to achieve salvation? Did Eve have to eat the apple? Did Jesus have to suffer on a cross so that we could be forgiven for our sins? You could have just snapped your fingers and forgiven our sins. You’re God. You could have cut out the whole middle part. But you chose to make us suffer. And that makes me angry.
My happiest moments were way back in childhood. Everything was magical back then. All children are in a constant state of awe and everything is fantastic to them, but then the magical feeling dissipates and reality creeps in. I can strongly remember sitting in my living room in the 60’s, as a kid, watching the television, and crying because I was seeing all those peaceful protesters getting sprayed with water hoses. When was the last time you felt that magical feeling?Ha! Not since I’ve been an adult, that’s for sure. I mean, I’ve felt happy. I’ve fallen in love. I’ve loved my friends and family. I’ve got a grandkid now. But I wouldn’t describe any of that as a magical feeling. You feel happy for a bit. You see your grandkid be born, and you’re like: ‘That’s great! A grandkid!’ But pretty soon you start thinking about how messed up the world is, and what your grandkid’s life is going to be like, and that feeling dissipates pretty fast.
What do you feel most guilty about?" Not finishing my novel. I've already built the room where I'm going to write it at my house in Sag Harbor. The walls of the room are painted Venetian red. It has shelves filled with every book I've ever read. There's a scallop striped Victorian chair. A little pine desk two feet by three feet, with all my pens lined up, and an 18th Century sang de bouef vase lamp. And there's a French door with a step that goes out onto the roof so I can look at the clouds. I have everything I need. Except the time."
These are my Ebola gloves. I ride the subway so I'm not taking any chances."
Him: We were reading Aesop's Fables the other night, and she surprised me by knowing the definition of a fable." Her: A fable is a story that teaches a lesson!" Me: So what's your favorite fable?" Her: Once there was a fox that wanted some grapes and he really wanted the grapes so he tried to jump up and get them but he messed it up and so he tried again but he messed it up again but then he walked away because he decided the grapes were sour and that teaches you not to be greedy and want too much pizza." Him: . I think we may have combined a few there."
I tend to be much calmer than him. It takes a lot to unnerve me, but if he knocks over his cup of coffee in the morning, it's going to change his whole day."
We're totally nerdy. It seems like all our jokes have some sort of calculus or advanced math references." What's an example?" Hmmm. we'll here's one. It's a little lurid, but back back when she was a graduate student in mechanical engineering, she had this device that was used to test the hardness of a material" Don't tell him that."
I'd have been a great mother, but we met too late for that. I didn't meet him until I was 42. It was the first time either of us had been married." How'd you meet?" I was with some friends in the park one day. I'd recently stopped dating a sociopathic nut ball, and I'd just gotten out of therapy, so I was feeling pretty adventurous. He rode by on a bike, and stopped for a moment to listen to a band that was playing. My friend bet me $5 that I wouldn't go talk to him. He was wearing a blood donor shirt that said: "Are you my type?' So I walked straight up to him and said: 'Yes I am.'"
When I say stand up, he stands up. When he says stand up, I stand up. When I say sit down, he sits down. When he says sit down, I sit down.
People call themselves animal lovers, then let their dogs chase the squirrels. You're scaring the shit out of the squirrels, you schmuck!"
Before medical school I was really into music. I'd work really hard on some songs, and post them on YouTube, and sometimes they'd get a few thousand views. There was a girl I used to collaborate with. We did a few covers together. But I went to medical school, and she skipped college and focused on music full time. Anyway, she's doing great now. All her songs get hundreds of thousands of views, and she just got back from a tour in Asia, and is talking with some major record labels. The funny thing is, she stopped in New York awhile back, and we met up and recorded a cover together, just for old times sake. We just threw it together really quickly, but because of who she is now, that song got more views than the combined total of everything else I ever worked on. It's funny how things work out."
The song:
Sometimes I feel like I’m not ready. And that’s a bad thought to have. Because once you get that thought into your brain, it goes into your body and your whole body shuts down.When is a time you felt like you weren’t ready?When I got out of foster care, I wasn’t hip to talking to people. In foster care, all we did was come home and go to our rooms, and I was living with this older autistic kid who would beat me up every day. So when I got out, I didn’t feel like I was ready to talk to people. I’d have to practice in the mirror every day.
I was sleeping in the living room, and in the middle of the night they kicked in the door and came running in. I was only ten, but I was big for a kid, so the cop threw me on the ground, and put handcuffs on me, and put a knee into my back. They kept screaming: ‘Stay down! Stay down! Stay down!’ Then they dragged my dad out of the room, and put him in handcuffs, and sat him down next to me against the wall. I asked him what was happening, but he just said: ‘I don’t know.’ That was the last time I saw him.
Need a few more videos of little humans reading Little Humans to finish our masterpiece. The goal is to stitch together the videos into a single adorable performance. We're aiming for the Oscar this year in Arguably Promotional Yet Unarguably Adorable Crowdsourced Films of Kids Reading Or Trying To Read a Kids Book category. So please, do it for art. (A few guidelines: horizontal videos instead of vertical videos. "Accurate' readings are by no means required. Staring, pointing, slapping, drooling, shaking, and throwing are also welcome and accepted means of interacting with the book.) 
Please email your videos to lhsubmissions@gmail.com And thanks so much to everyone who's already sent in videos. Watching them has been the best part of the week.
So get this. I'm driving down Park Avenue one day and this guy waves for me, so I pull over and I ask him where he's going. He tells me 74th street, and I tell him that's too far for me, because my shift just ended, so he says "thanks anyway' and walks away. But then I think about it, and I start feeling bad for the guy, cause hey I got a conscience. So I call him back to the cab and tell him to hop in. And he gets in the car all excited, all animated, and he's talking about all these things. But he's got his cap pulled down way over his eyes, so I can't see who it is. But pretty soon I start to recognize his voice. And when we get to a light, I turn to him, and I look him in the eye, and I scream: WIIIIIIILLLSSSSSOOOOOOON!!!"  And that really got him. He started laughing hard. He sees that I've got this Ferrari hat on, and a Ferrari shirt too, so he starts calling me 'Mr. Ferrari.' The whole ride, he keeps calling me 'Mr. Ferrari.' So after we get to his destination, we snap a quick photo, and he goes on his way. And I think that's it. But that's not it, cause get this. Over the next few weeks, I just happen to randomly pick up people that know him. People who have acted with him before, people who work with him. And every time, I tell them: 'Tell Mr. Hanks that Mr. Ferrari says 'hello.' Every time I say that. Then one day I'm driving, and I get a text from one of the people that I'd driven, and it says: 'Mr. Hanks wants to invite you to see his Broadway show.' So I bring my lady to the show, and we get to go backstage and everything, and after the show, we're waiting for him in his dressing room, and he walks in and screams: 'Mr. Ferrari!' Can you believe that story? And you wanna know the craziest thing? The name of his show was 'Lucky Guy.' How crazy is that? Cause that was me. A lucky guy!"
I remember one night we came home and all our stuff was on the curb and the door was locked. My mom started crying and took us all up the fire escape and we all huddled together and slept on the roof.
They're always covering for each other. This morning I found them both sitting in the kitchen, and there was Reynolds Wrap strewn all over the place. One of them looked extremely guilty, and the other said she saw nothing."
Friends? Dating?Bros.
The year before the last one, we were dancing at a street party near Corona Park, and somebody took our picture and put it on the Channel Twelve!"
Your brain is growing at a rapid rate during adolescence. There’s a lot of emotion, confusion, thrill seeking. It’s a time when you try a lot of things and make a lot of mistakes. We all went through it. But in this neighborhood, there’s not a lot of maneuverability. There’s not a lot of room for teens to make mistakes, and the mistakes have higher consequences. To make things worse, adolescence seems to be prolonged here. Many young people in the community view adolescence as a pinnacle, and not a stage. Girls become mothers at a young age. Fathers are absent, so young boys are forced to act like men. So what you have are adolescents who become authority figures, and spread the adolescent mindset through the community. Instead of thinking through a conflict, young men feel a social pressure to immediately react, so they don’t appear ‘soft’ or ‘weak.’ That’s one of the reasons I feel that mentorship programs are so important. They give adolescents a space to remain adolescents.
I’m a recovering knucklehead from the South Bronx. Now I run a mentorship program for teens. A lot of the teens we work with are angry, but I used to be angry a lot too. I can’t even say exactly where the anger comes from: the trash, the potholes, the sirens, the cursing, the yelling, the seeing people getting frisked. I can’t say exactly what causes the anger, but it’s hard to grow up around all that and be OK.
Do you remember the happiest moment of your life?" Mondays. 4 o'clock. That's when Superman came on. Channel 4."
This is my neighbor. She only speaks Mandarin, so we've never had a conversation. But she's brought me a handful of candy every day for 20 years."
What's your greatest struggle right now?" Staying relevant."
What's the most heroic thing you've ever done?" Wash the dishes without being asked."
What do you feel most guilty about in life?Going to Iraq and killing people.
What’s the nicest thing your sister has ever done for you?When I was little, she turned on the light and showed me that the monsters were just doorknobs and sweaters and jackets.
Making jewelry is how I breath, and I just sell what’s left over. I sort of view it as my ministry. If somebody has a birthday coming up, I try to make them a little something. One woman at our church has a birthday today, and she’s a cancer survivor, so I made her a heart-shaped pendant that says ‘LIVE’ on it. All the little kids come to see me after church. They love me. Well, I also give them candy, which may be the reason. But I think they love me too.
I've received some pretty awesome videos of kids reading Little Humans, which has really made me want to do a video mashup of kids reading Little Humans. So if you have the book, try to covertly sneak a video of story time and send it to lhsubmissions@gmail.com . Don't worry about garbled readings, mispronunciations, mess-ups, or unintelligible words. Only adds to the charm. If you're on an iPhone, hold the phone horizontally. (We're looking for hamburger videos, not hotdog videos.) Thanks! Looking forward to these.
This was the only four year degree school that offered free tuition, with no military service or any other catch involved. Peter Cooper started the school in 1859, saying that he believed education should be open and "free for all.' Cooper Union's mission statement explicitly stated that the school should always be free. But for the first time in its history, the school is charging tuition. The administration has spun it as reducing the scholarship from a 'full scholarship' to a 'half scholarship,' but in reality they've raised the cost from $0 to $20,000." What is the administration's argument for enacting tuition?" The school has been running at a deficit since the 1990's, and they say it's the only way to maintain a quality education and avoid bankruptcy. But at a time when so many students in America are being drowned in student debt, we say that we'd rather make drastic budget cuts than throw out the dream of free education that the school was built on."
I'd like to be out of the shelter by Thanksgiving, because I'd like to eat Thanksgiving dinner at home."
What are the flowers for?" We woke up at 5 AM today. So we're saying "sorry.'"
I found a girl’s phone number in his pocket one night when he came home late from work. I thought: ‘I can leave, or I can resolve myself to it.’ I had young children at the time, and no income, and no family to fall back on, so I decided to live with it. There were times he’d stay out all night, or wouldn’t answer the phone. But he was a good father. He worked. We went on vacations together. I think he was sick for about a year before he finally went to the doctor. He didn’t even tell me himself. His doctor told me that I needed to get tested, because my husband had AIDS.
I was like: "So are we a thing?' And he was like: 'I don't know. Are we?'"
I always tell my wife that she can only photograph me while I’m working. My job is to make old things look beautiful. I like to bring things back to life. That’s my thing.
This morning he asked me if he was still not allowed to say "What the fuck?'"
I'm bringing leaves to my friend!"
It was hell growing up. My parents were two pieces of shit. You don’t know what it was like coming home from school and being afraid because your mom is flying on fucking drugs so you go and hide under your bed and listen to them scream and wonder whether your dad or your mom was going to kill the other one first. One time my dad told my mom that he’d kill her if she hit me again. He came home that night and saw my face bruised up, so he dragged my mom out of her room by the legs, lifted her up by her throat and pinned her against the wall. Her face was turning more and more purple and I was pulling on her legs trying to get her feet back on the ground. Cause I didn’t want to see my dad kill my mom. She always beat me and called me a piece of shit and told me that I was going to hell, but that was my mom.
I was doing time for armed robbery when I found out that my daughter had been killed. Her and my son-in-law had been doing hallucinogens, and he was choking her because that is supposed to make a better orgasm, but he cut off her air too long and ended up killing her. Instead of calling the police, he sat on her body for three days then dumped it behind a 7-11. I was so angry when they called and told me, I pulled up a footlocker that was bolted to the ground. I’m skinny but I’m strong as hell. My wife couldn’t take it, and she OD’d. They found her in the bathroom with one hundred empty bags of heroin. She’d fallen in the bathtub and hit her head on the soap dish. When they called and told me that, I tried to hang myself with my bedsheets.
What do you feel most guilty about?" I just left my therapist's office. So nothing."
What's your son's greatest superpower?" His heart." What's your dad's greatest superpower?" He can fly."
I asked her what she felt most guilty about, and she said: I can't say it, because it will make me cry. And I don't like people to see me cry."  I told her that was fine and changed the subject, but after a few minutes she typed it out on her phone, and handed it to me:
When I was eleven years old, I got in a fight with my twin brother and told him that he was going to die before me because he had a brain tumor."
Is he still alive?"  I asked.Nope."
Her daughter was standing next to me while I took the photo. Mom won't stop smoking cigarettes"  she said. And she loves to speed. Speed, speed, speed. If you're going anywhere with her, she makes you run to keep up."
She got The Politest Student of the Month Award."
I have five deteriorating discs in my back. I tried to pick something up at work a few years back, and I heard a pop. I'd worked all my life up until then, but now I can't. It messes with your psyche. You can't be the man of the house anymore. You have to depend on your wife. You can't play with your kids the way your dad played with you. Honestly, this is my second time out of the house in ten days. And not to rush your process or anything, but it hurts to stand here."
My father never liked me. The last time I saw him, I hid from him. We both went to visit my grandmother at the same time. When I heard that he was on his way, I hid beneath the staircase, and I watched his back as he walked away. I never saw him again. My sister was with him when he died. She says he cried a lot."
My mom died in August." What was your favorite thing about her?" Her sense of humor." What was the time you most appreciated her sense of humor?" Probably when I was in high school and she walked in on my girlfriend and I going at it. I was too embarrassed to go back home, so she called my girlfriend, and asked to speak to me. When I got on the phone, she said: "Bet you went soft pretty quick there, huh?'"
I want her to be halfway trusting, but not so much so."
I was on a magazine cover. Do you want to see?" Absolutely."
It's hard for me to materialize things into form. I'm full of regrets, I've got poor self-esteem. Every time I start doing something, I get down on myself and quit. I wasn't a leader when I was young, and I fell into all the wrong things. Eventually I got into doing drugs, then selling drugs, and I ended up going to prison." How'd it all end?" I was one robbed one night, and learned who did it, so I decided to get back at the guy. I wasn't really thinking at the time. I was high out of my head, we were listening to Metallica, smoking PCP, and all my friends were yelling at me to do something. So we found the guy and I slashed him with a box cutter and hit him with the shaft of a steering wheel. I went home and told my mother that if the cops come, to tell them I was home all night. Then I took off down Ditmars Boulevard, and after I drove a few miles, cop cars started coming at me from everywhere."
I've got one of those bucket lists. I want to drive a race car. I wanted to join the Air Force, but that was just so I could jump out of an airplane, with a parachute but not from too high though. Just medium high. I also want to go up in a balloon, because that looks fun. And also I want to do that thing where you're holding onto that kite-looking-thing while it goes through the air. Then I want to catch one of those big fish with the thing coming out of its nose, where they have to strap you to a chair so you can reel it in. My friend says I'm too old for that, but I think I can do it."
What's your greatest struggle right now?" I'm trying to work with a broken elbow. I do wrestling on the weekends, and during my last match I got thrown out of the ring by The Latin Lover who's actually my best friend. But he's 6'2"  and 290 lbs. I'm just a buck twenty five. He lifted me over his head and threw me clear over the ropes and I didn't land very well. But even with a broken elbow, I got back into the ring and executed my finish move I held onto his head and did a back flip off the ropes. But at the last moment he caught me and put me into a tombstone piledriver. But I got him back when the match was over, because I pretended to shake his hand, and my partner jumped him from behind. I do that kind of tricky stuff. Because I'm a bad guy.What's your wrestling name?" The Superstar of All Superstars."
I’ve stopped trying to fix my father. He’s in poor health, and I’ve been trying to get him to exercise more and eat right. Every time I would visit him, I’d suggest improvements to his diet and routine. He’d never listen, I’d get frustrated, he’d get angry, and it would always end in tension. So I’ve decided to let it go, and spend our remaining time together on his terms.
I have a hard time figuring out relationships. The girls I've dated haven't exactly told me when they were upset. They just started acting strangely, but telling me they were fine. So I thought: "Well, everything must be fine. I'll just keep doing my thing.' Turns out everything wasn't fine."
I think one of the neighbors had beef with my mother. Because one day when my mom went to the store, and left us alone for just a few minutes, child services came and took us away. My sister and I got split up. I got sent to a group home. It was like a prison everybody there was looking out for themselves. I’d call my mother and cry on the phone but she’d just say she was sorry, and there was nothing she could do, and she was trying. After a few months, my sister and I got moved into a foster home. Our foster mother was this old lady named Ms. Elizabeth. She let our mother come visit us even though she wasn’t supposed to. And she took us to church and prayed with us, and every Sunday she’d cook us a huge dinner and completely deck out the table like it was Thanksgiving. It was like some movie shit. We’d never had anything like that before. Even when we moved back with our mother, we would alway visit Ms. Elizabeth up until the time she passed away.
I’ve written so many stories and novellas that nobody will look at, plays that I can’t get produced, screenplays that will never be made. Everything is so branded these days in the art world, it’s so hard for an outsider to get work.
In what way would you consider yourself an ‘outsider?’
I’m interested in failure, so those are the themes that I like to explore. But we live in a society that celebrates triumphalism. A society wants art that reaffirms itself. We want to read about characters that win. What was your lowest moment as an artist?I worked on a screenplay for two years, and it had just been turned down by the fifth theater in a month, and I remember walking down 5th avenue in the middle of winter, tossing the pages one by one into the slush, vowing never to do it again. It was just a few blocks from here, actually.
We've been trying for a few years. We both want it very badly, but it's probably been hardest on my wife. It's her body and she's been the one that's had to go through all the treatments, so I think the failure hits her hardest. It seems especially unfair because she's the sweetest and most liked person I know. Sometimes it's hard to keep our frustration from becoming the focus of the relationship, but it's also brought us closer together and given us a shared goal. We've got another treatment in a couple weeks. It's a very advanced procedure and we're very hopeful about this one." Will you be OK whatever the outcome?" "OK' might be too strong a word, but we'll definitely survive."
Right now I’m moving from pantries to soup kitchens to shelters.What was your upbringing like?I’d say dysfunctional but fair.How was it dysfunctional and how was it fair?It was dysfunctional because there was alcohol everywhere. There was a lot of cussing and calling me names like ‘piece of shit.’ But it was fair because I always had a place to stay and clothes on my back. And I did the Boy Scouts or the Boy’s Club, or whatever that was called. But in the end, the alcohol won out.
He's a counselor, so he's always putting everyone else's problems before his own. Including mine."
I'm five!" Does it feel any different than four?" It feels less smaller."
What do you feel most guilty about?" That guy I killed two years ago." What happened?" He asked to take my picture."


We're all victims of the architect. Architecture is the only art that you can't help but feel. You can avoid paintings, you can avoid music, and you can even avoid history. But good luck getting away from architecture."
I survived a long term murder plot against my life."
I was tired of working retail, so I lied on my resume and said that I had bookkeeper experience. I learned as much as I could from Google before the job interview, and printed out balance sheets to practice on. After I got the job, I read as much as I could every morning on the train. It was nerve wracking at first, but I presented the numbers at the end of the month, and everything checked out. May not have been the best way to get a job, but hey I've got a son to look out for."
How'd you meet?" He was representing my best friend's ex-husband in a trial, and I marched into his office to inform him that his client was a lying scumbag." And so what were you thinking while she was yelling at you?" "That's a good looking woman.'"
Before he was born, so much of my life was about moving forward. I was always looking toward the next house, the next car, the next job. Having a child with special needs really made me slow down and examine my definition of success. It also opened my eyes to how many people around me were willing to help." What was your most difficult moment as a parent?" After being strong for so long, there was a moment when my wife finally broke down. And that was very difficult for me to see." What was your happiest moment?" After months of coming home from work every day, kissing him on the cheek, and telling him I loved him one day he said it back."
We've run marathons together on all seven continents." You ran a marathon in Antarctica?" Ran it? She won it!"
My happiest memories are from when I was growing up in South Carolina. I remember sitting in the kitchen, waiting on breakfast and listening to the coffee perkin’. My grandmother had her own garden, and my grandfather had his own grocery store, so we always had fresh vegetables and grits and bacon and eggs. That was a big deal back then in the 50’s for a black man to own a grocery store. If someone needed credit, my grandfather would just write their name in a book. And if they couldn’t pay, he’d just forget about it. He was shorter than I was, and very quiet. But everybody respected him. He used to walk to the store every morning before dawn, with a 38’ in his hand. Every night he’d walk home with that same gun in his hand. Even the white delivery men called him Mr. Robinson. MISTER Robinson.
We met at a party fifty years ago. He’d just drank a yard of ale when I met him. Do you have that expression here ‘yard of ale?’ It’s when you pour a pint of ale down a tube, straight into your throat. Anyway, he was feeling quite good. He called me ‘funny face’ that night. And he’s called me ‘funny face’ ever since. We stayed at the party so late that we missed the last bus, and on the walk home we planned our honeymoon.
I've spent my career in social work, finding jobs for people with disabilities. I love helping people, but I'm tired of being poor. So I'm looking for a job that's a bit more commercial." What was the most frustrating part of social work?" All the best people leave."
What's been your greatest knitting triumph?" One time I almost finished knitting a sweater, then I realized it didn't fit, so I unknitted it. And then I knitted it all over again."
I kept getting in trouble at school, and my dad told me he was going to give up on me. But then he changed his mind and said that he was never going to give up on me." What made him change his mind?" I don't know. He just said it, went in his room, closed the door, then came out two minutes later and took it back."
I pretty much love every video game." What's something you've learned from video games that you can apply to real life?" Never trust the bad guy." How do you know if it's a bad guy?" Because he'll ask you to get in his car."
I never know how she learns things. I made her a sandwich, and she told me: "I don't want to eat.' I said, 'Well, you need to eat.' Then she said: 'If I eat, can I can play later?' And I thought: 'Did she just bargain with me? How did she learn how to bargain?"
If I'm ever arguing with her mom, I just look down and remind myself that this beautiful woman gave me this beautiful child. And this child doesn't care who's right or who's wrong, all she cares about is that mommy and daddy are there."
What do you want to be when you grow up?" A police officer." What's the best part about being a police officer?" Figuring out who made the mistakes." What's the toughest part of being a police officer?" Figuring out which key unlocks the jail."
This spot in the park reminds me a bit of Massachusetts, so I come here when I'm feeling homesick." What brought you to New York?" I'm not sure. I'm an artist, and I thought it would be good to create a situation where I feel out of place and slightly fearful. I feel like you can only draw inspiration from circumstances. Inspiration isn't really something that you can sit around and extract from your psyche."
I've had this calendar for three years. I use it for writing assignments and keeping my schedule, but also just to jot down my thoughts and do drawings. What's. (opens to random page) . this page?" That was about a year and a half ago. It's in two different colors, so I guess it's from two different days. But it's about the same boy." "The person behind the name doesn't exist' what does that mean?" I wrote that one night when I was just sitting in front of my Gmail and Facebook, looking at the name of a boy I liked on the screen, seeing his profile, and somehow feeling like I was connected to him. The screen almost felt like I was connecting to a real person, but he wasn't even there. It was just a name on a screen." 'Silence is cruel' what does that mean?" It means I never got the courage to tell him about my feelings."
I keep waiting until the day when I don't have to work so hard to make it next month. But there's no finish line."
Let's put it this way, I'm living in a homeless shelter, and I hate my life the least right now. My mother was very verbally abusive. I was a chubby kid, and she'd make fun of my weight whenever she got mad at me. She was always on drugs. I'd come into the kitchen sometimes and find her passed out at the sink with the water running. She gave me my first heroin when I was 17. She used to make me panhandle to support her habit."
I take my meds but I still have bad days. I know the moment I wake up if it's going to be a bad day. I'm really fidgety and distracted and resentful. I can't even sit out here on bad days. I get too resentful when people walk by and don't help. I know it doesn't make sense, and that I don't have a right to be resentful, but I still get angry. I can't keep a job because of the bad days. I just get too verbal when I'm agitated. I don't even realize I'm doing it. I realize it later. But when it's happening, I don't know it's happening. It's like when I'm in the picture, I can't see the picture."
We're starting international zombie clubs and trying to organize a "world record breaking' simultaneous Thriller dance. It's gonna be tough to beat the record, though. Because 125,000 kids in Canada did the Hokey Pokey all at the same time."
He makes me want to know about little things, so that I can teach him. Like when we sit by this lake, I wish I knew what kind of turtle that was, so I could tell him. And I want to figure out what kind of duck that is, so I can tell him all about it the next time we come." What do you want most for him?" Whatever his dreams are, I'm down to ride for him." What's your biggest fear for him?" That he won't try. If he doesn't try, I'll be hurt. Cause then we'll never know how far he'd get."
I was a convoy commander in the war. One time my men drove all night from Kuwait to Turkey, and the Captain tried to tell me that he wanted us to turn right around and drive to Baghdad. I said: "Captain, these men need rest. That's a suicide mission!' But he kept pressing, and I kept refusing. Eventually he started bumping up against me with his chest. So I said: 'Captain, no disrespect, but if you bump me one more time, I'm going to knock you on your ass.' And then he did it once more, so I knocked him on his ass. He never laid a hand on me, but he ended up beating me with the pen. He wrote up a report and they demoted me and took my stripes, and assigned a new sergeant to our convoy. But whenever that new sergeant issued an order, the men would come to me and ask for permission to follow it."
Little Humans is out TODAY, wherever books are sold. Put a lot of heart into it, and we're really proud of it. I wanted to create a fun way to make the energy of HONY accessible to a young audience, and, *fingers crossed,* hopefully you'll think the book hits that mark. Really hope you'll have fun sharing this diverse and outsized collection of kids with the little human in your life. AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND: 
What's your greatest fear?" Getting a lobotomy."
It's amazing how much stuff you subconsciously pick up from your parents. I'm always afraid they'll get cold, so I put way too many clothes on them when they go out. Then recently my wife and I found a picture of me when I was four years old, and I was wearing four coats."
I'm supposed to be in there installing a system. They think I'm taking a break, but I'm really out here trying to figure out what I'm doing."
If they raise the subway fare one more time, I'm going to explode. I'm making nine dollars an hour. I walk home three hours from work every day to save that $2.50, because that's a half gallon of milk for me and my daughter. And every time they raise the fare, they have a "hearing.' But they aren't hearing anything. It's a fucking joke. If you go to one of those 'hearings,' every single person stands up and says: 'Don't raise the fare.' Then they raise it anyway. Oh man, it burns me up. 'We need the money,' they say, 'America is hurting.' That's bullshit! If I see one more TV program bragging about multimillion dollar homes I'm gonna scream. How about a fucking TV program that shows me if there is anywhere in this city that I can fucking afford to live anymore. I'm sorry, but it's burning me up."
I've been training since the age of 8. I want to fight in the Olympics." What's your biggest weakness as a fighter?" No weak points. Just the fear before the fight."
(Jerusalem)
He stays always in the Dome of the Rock. Children come to him for blessings. He can't see, but his mind is perfect. He only has to hear your voice  and he'll remember your name, your mobile number, and even the anniversary of your mother's death."
(Jerusalem)
I just came back from ten months in Asia. I learned a lot about myself." What's one thing you learned?" If you do what you love, the way will always open." What do you love?" That's what I have to figure out next."
(Jerusalem)

Little Humans is being released in 32.5 hours! Along with an award-winning* narrative, it's got 37 of the best kids photos from the last 4 years of HONY. Guaranteed to produce scream-smiles of the variety seen below. You can preorder now online for 50% off. AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND: *The Susie The Dog Award for best kids book written by her dad.






We're learning traditional Palestinian dances."
(Jerusalem)
What do you hope the most for your children?" That they will respect their elders and maintain our traditions."
(Jerusalem)
He could remember seventy world capitals by the age of two!" Mom, please."
(Jerusalem)
What's the most romantic thing he's ever done for you?" You don't talk about those things!"
(Jerusalem)
I get along with him better than his father."
(Jerusalem)
I'm saving up money to go to Brazil so I can find my birth mother."
(Jerusalem)
Today in microfashion. (Jerusalem)
When you are a child, and you walk outside, and see that your neighbors house is gone, it puts something in you deep down. All the small children have fear. It’s always with us. Weddings, graduation parties, these are happy events. But something is always missing. We always feel it. Life is very complicated now. There are checkpoints and police harassment. We live like second-class citizens. The Arabs are afraid of the Israelis. The Israelis are afraid of the Arabs. Arab children are afraid of bombs. Israeli children are afraid of rockets. And it’s not like one side can win. The Israelis can never kill all the Palestinians. The Palestinians cannot kill all the Israelis. Only peace can end it. I’d say eighty percent want peace. The rest are crazy religious.
(Jerusalem)
Would you like to come to my wedding? You will be in charge of bringing the tea!
(Jerusalem)
He’s like an angel. When he was younger, he would pass by our store everyday. He couldn’t speak back then. He couldn’t even say his name, but he always passed by the store and gave off the warmest feelings. My father began to invite him in, and soon he was coming by the store every day to play. When he started spending time with us, he began to improve very quickly. We told him we needed his help with the shop. We think that all he needed was something to hope for. He began to tell us all about his feelings. He visited with everyone who came into the shop. He learned bits of English and Japanese. He changed our lives so much. My father loved him like a son, and he loved my father. They would always laugh together and dance together. When my Father died, he was very sad for five months. He still prays for my father every time he eats a meal. Lately, all he can talk about is a girl in his class that he wants to marry. She also has Down Syndrome. Every day he talks about the wedding he will have, and he invites everyone he sees. He has invited over 5,000 people so far. He tells each person what they are supposed to bring to the wedding. His father will not allow him to get married. But we are thinking about having a ‘wedding party,’ and inviting everyone in the town.
(Jerusalem)
There have been very good parts and very bad parts, but in the end, I love life. Every night before I sleep, I ask God for three more years, so that I can make it an even one hundred. Then I recite a blessing that my mother gave me when I left her in Poland. It was the last time I saw her. The blessing is much more powerful in Hebrew, but it says: ‘Wherever you go, may people always recognize that you have a beautiful heart.’
(Jerusalem)
I was the youngest in the family. I went to Israel first, and the rest of the family was supposed to join me. Nobody made it. We sent letters to each other for the first few years. The last letter I got from Poland came in 1941. It was from my mother. It asked me to send food. Then the letters stopped. I knew that the Germans had occupied Poland, and I heard rumors about the things that were happening. I never learned the specifics of what happened to my family. I never wanted to.
(Jerusalem)
I can lift 15 kilos." How much do you think you'll be able to lift when you're grown up?" 20 kilos."
(Jerusalem)
An hour ago we put wishes inside of balloons, and released them into the sky." What was your wish?" To stand up."
(Jerusalem)
Before I return to New York portraits, I want to share some portraits and stories that I gathered on an unscheduled side trip that I took to Jerusalem. Because of the hastily arranged nature of the trip, I worked with some unorthodox interpreters, including an extremely bright sixteen year old Palestinian boy. He approached everyone quite confidently, until we got to this group, and suddenly he got fidgety and clammed up. Um, I don't know,"  he said. They, um, will probably say no, um, maybe we should ask someone else."
(Jerusalem)
Little Humans goes on sale on October 7th, which is ONE WEEK from today. Little Humans is also known colloquially as The HONY Kids' Book,"  and The HONY Book For Adults Who Prefer Kids' Books."  All the best kid portraits from the last few years are in there, along with if you'll allow me to quote the marketing department  a heartwarming ode to little humans everywhere."  Little Humans is less than $10 online, and should be shipping any day now from online retailers. 
AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND:

For everyone who lives around NYC, or plans to be in New York during October, a few public events which have been scheduled locally around the book launch:
I'm going to be giving a speech on October 7th at the 92nd St. Y, which is officially billed as a Launch Event for Little Humans,"  but seeing that I have an hour to talk, will most likely take the form of a general discussion about the history and process behind HONY. I enjoy telling HONY's history and demonstrating the work, so we'll have fun. This event is ticketed it's $40 I think, which is a bit rich, but 100% of the money goes to support the Y's community programs. (And some of the ticket price can be put toward a purchase of Little Humans.) Unfortunately I just learned that most of the tickets were sold before I could make the announcement, and there are only about 300 left. Those tickets are available here:
A free, more "easily attendable' event will be the book signing at Union Square Barnes and Noble on October 11th, which begins at 2 PM. This event was a lot of fun last year with the launch of the adult book. Since this is a children's book, we'll keep it fun and playful. We scheduled it on the weekend so you can bring the kids and dogs, though I'm not sure dogs are allowed in the bookstore, so you may want to disguise them as kids. For those of you with tickets to Comic Con, I will also be speaking there at on October 12th at 3:15 PM. Then October 18th, at 4:00 PM, I'll be doing a talk/signing at Powerhouse Arena in Brooklyn. Last year, the final Powerhouse signing was the most unhurried and intimate event, though this year it might not be because I just said it would be. We also scheduled that signing during the weekend, because it would be awesome to have little humans at the Little Humans book signing.
Whew! That post took two cups of coffee.
We lived in different cities when we first met, and once a month he'd come to visit me. The first time he made the trip, I woke up at 2 AM, and he was singing outside my window with three guitar players. There was a popular song back then called "Gema,' and he changed it to my name, 'Gena.'" Can you remember the words?" Eres la gema que Dios convirtiera en mujer para bien de mi vida. Por eso quise cantar y gritar que te quiero mujer consentida." [You are the gem that God turned into woman to make my life better.Thats why I want to sing and shout that I love you, beautiful woman.]
(Mexico City, Mexico)
She taught me how to dance. We actually met at a graduation party. I was the only one not on the dance floor, and her friend bet her that she couldn't get me to dance. I'd already said "no' to ten girls, but she talked me into it. We were together 55 years. She died eight years ago, but I still dance every day."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
After my last child left the house, it really hit home that at the end of every life is loneliness. 
(Mexico City, Mexico)
I think all the pressure that I put on myself has been paralyzing. When I graduated from high school, a lot of people wrote in my yearbook: "You're going to do great things,' or 'I know you're going to make it big.' I realized recently that with all the time I spent trying to figure out what my 'big thing' was going to be, I passed over a lot of small things that could have really added up. The moment I became content with taking small steps, I started moving forward again."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
I think all the pressure that I put on myself has been paralyzing. When I graduated from high school, a lot of people wrote in my yearbook: "You're going to do great things,' or 'I know you're going to make it big.' I realized recently that with all the time I spent trying to figure out what my 'big thing' was going to be, I passed over a lot of small things that could have really added up. The moment I became content with taking small steps, I started moving forward again."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
I started working in the fields when I was five. After that, I worked construction for thirty years. Eight years ago, I was between jobs and I wanted to do something useful, so I started going to school. It took me 8 years to get through middle school, because I could only go to classes when work was slow, but I finished with a 9.3 out of 10. Now I'm moving on to high school. The toughest part is Algebra."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
The saddest moment of my life was when my son left for America. I begged him not to go, but it was no use. He was my son but also my best friend. He used to tell me everything, but all he tells me now is: "Don't worry, I have a job. I'll tell you everything when I get back.' I think he just doesn't want me to worry about him. Because I heard from his friend that he's being badly mistreated."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
I was carrying a steel pipe at work, and it brushed up against an electrical wire. When I woke up, I saw that everything was gone, and I just started crying. It's like I'm a kid again. They clean me, they put me to bed, they wipe my butt, and they even hold my birdie when I pee. I've been begging for money in this same spot for 20 years. All that I can do is try to get my bread every day until God decides to take me home."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
Everyone is born with a number. Mine is the number of The Beast. Jesus told me he needed an Antichrist. And now Satan is smoking me like a cigarette. But maybe I will be an Antichrist who helps people, because I'm also a white wizard.  
(Mexico City, Mexico)
I gave my three year old daughter some worthless coins, and jokingly told her that she was rich. She went and hid the coins away, and I forgot all about them. Around the same time, my oldest daughter got a bunch of money from her aunts and uncles for her birthday. A few months later, we needed money for food, and I asked my oldest daughter if we could use some of her birthday money. She refused. I almost started crying, because I thought then that I had completely failed as a parent. But suddenly, my youngest daughter appeared, and gave me back the handful of coins that I had given her."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
I got it for her birthday. I live 1.5 hours away, so I had to bring it on the bus and the subway. It was a little embarrassing."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
Today in microfashion
(Mexico City, Mexico)
What's the most romantic thing he's ever done?" He asked my kids for permission to marry me."

(Mexico City, Mexico)
Do you remember the saddest moment of your life?" My first night at sleepaway camp."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
He called and said that he was going to commit suicide if I left him. But he'd already blackmailed me so many times before, and I was so tired of it, that I told him I didn't care and hung up. When I called back three hours later, a cop answered the phone."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
I'm trying to help my parents pay for college."

(Mexico City, Mexico)
What's your greatest worry as a mother?" That the values I teach him won't overcome the influence of the street that we live on."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
I don't know much about him. My aunt tells me that he was smart and funny, and that I'm a lot like him because I'm stubborn. I know that I have his nose. But other than that, he's just the man who walked out on me and my mother. He'd call every few months when I was really young, but eventually that stopped. I can't convince myself that he's mean, because then I'll be angry forever. I'm sure plenty of people who know him think that he's a really nice guy." Would you like to know him?" I can't say that I want to know him really, but I would like to know about him. I'd like to see how he behaves, how he walks, if he seems different than the other people I see on the street. I'm interested in his story just like I'm interested in everyone else's story. Only a little more so, because I'm a part of his story."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
If you could change one decision you've made in your life, what would it be?" I wouldn't get married, again."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
I'd had five operations on my uterus, and after the last one, the doctor sat me down and told me that I would never have a child. He scheduled a surgery to have my uterus completely removed. I wanted a baby so much, so it was almost like hearing that my life was over. One week later, I started feeling strange. I started craving bread and falling asleep early, but I've always had problems with my hormone levels, so I thought it was nothing. My friends would joke that I was pregnant, but it was too hurtful for me to even joke about. Then after three months, I felt so bad that I had to spend a day in bed, and after that my friend drove me to the pharmacy and forced me to take a pregnancy test. I came home and laid the test on the counter without even looking at it. I didn't want to be let down again. Then right before I went to bed, I finally looked, and there it was. After all these years, I still have that test. One month before they were going to remove my uterus, I'd finally gotten pregnant."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
I sometimes wonder what would have happened if my mom hadn't died. I was always with her, and I always followed what she said. So I think that if she was still around I probably wouldn't have gotten expelled from school. Dad spent all his time at work, so we were like two total strangers after she died. He'd try to reprimand me without knowing who I was or how I felt. He'd tell me to put down the guitar and quit wasting my time. And he'd never show any sadness about Mom. He thought he was being strong but he wasn't helping us or him. By not crying, all he did was make us feel more alone."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
The first time I got on stage, I forgot about all my problems. We were the opening act at a rodeo, and nobody was there. Only about ten people were in the crowd, and almost all of them were employees. I was so nervous that my hands were shaking. But it was the first time that I'd felt the feeling of playing my own music in front of a crowd, and I've been addicted to that feeling ever since."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
I want to be a visual artist, but the art world seems to be much more about politics than it is about talent. You have to continually go to galleries and events, so that you can shake the right hands and meet influential people. Extroverted artists seem to have a big advantage."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
We weren't expecting it. We were expecting him to be a little chubby, or have big ears, or be a little funny looking, but we weren't expecting him to have Down syndrome. They had been telling us that all the tests were normal. We were devastated at first, but we decided to take the bull by the horns. And it actually brought us closer together. We'd been growing a little apart before he was born, but he gave us a common goal to focus on. We spent two months at the hospital together when he got pneumonia. And he's turned out to be a blessing. There's no evil in him. He's either happy, or sad, or mad, but he never conceals and always expresses just how he feels."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
I've worked to eradicate Malaria my entire life, and I used to drive out into the rural areas all the time to do my work. I'd carry large amounts of money without any fear. People would know that I had money with me and nobody would bother me. But things have changed. People have grown desperate, and desperate people do bad things. The population has grown in Mexico much faster than the infrastructure, and there just aren't enough jobs to support everyone. My company had a job opening recently, and all the job required was a high school diploma, but 400 people showed up with college degrees. And that was for a job that only paid $350 a month! All Mexicans need are jobs. We are not a lazy people. Give us a job and we won't sleep if it's necessary. We'll eat our lunch while we are working. We will work 15 hours a day to dig a hole 10 kilometers deep, if that is what you ask us to do. Because for us, all work is a blessing."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
When I first met her, she was dating another guy. He didn't like me talking to her, so he waited for me outside of class one day and beat me up. But I didn't give up on her. I started biking and swimming and learning to box. I got skinnier than you are. Then the next time I saw him, he came over to me and said: "You want another round?' And I said: 'This will be the last round!' Then I knocked him out in two punches."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
I have a Masters in history, a Masters in anthropology, and a PhD in education." What would you say has been your greatest accomplishment?" My personality."
(Mexico City, Mexico)
During my first two years of college, I studied with people who didn't have very high goals. I was the hardest worker in the group and everyone was always asking me for help, so I felt like I was ahead of where I should be. During my last two years, I moved into more advanced classes, and suddenly I was studying with people who had higher goals than me. They pressured me to study much harder, but it was too late. When I graduated, I missed having an "excellent' rating by .04 points."
(Ho Chi Minh City / Saigon, Vietnam)
He found me and my son on New Year's Eve, sleeping in a construction site. We'd been forced out on the street after my husband abandoned us. He said: "You shouldn't live like this, come home with me.' He let us live with him for months, and he never asked me for a thing, and he very good to my son. Sometimes I'd come home and find him carrying my son on his shoulders. After a few months, we developed romantic feelings for each other."
(Ho Chi Minh City / Saigon, Vietnam)
Today in microfashion
(Ho Chi Minh City / Saigon, Vietnam)
After I took the photo, my translator sat next to her on the bench, while I sat on the ground. The woman motioned for me to sit on the bench. Since there was barely any room, I declined. But she insisted. I declined again. But she insisted again, so I finally squeezed into the empty spot. Then she groaned and said: He's got a huge ass."
(Ho Chi Minh City / Saigon, Vietnam)
What's your biggest fear?" Being alone." When did you feel most alone?" On weekend nights in college, sometimes I'd sit by myself in the corner of my dorm room with nothing but a little light on, while all my friends went out." Why didn't you go out with them?" It's hard to say."
(Hanoi, Vietnam)
What's your favorite thing about your mom?" She's hardworking." In what way is she hardworking? She cooks food for her business all day. Then she comes home and cooks food for us."
(Hanoi, Vietnam)
I need to interrupt the regularly scheduled programming to announce that Little Humans is coming out in TWO WEEKS. I was going to wait until I got home to start banging that drum, but my agent emailed me that my publisher is freaking out a bit"  that I haven't mentioned it in so long. So allow me to announce that LITTLE HUMANS IS GOING TO BE THE GREATEST KIDS BOOK IN THE HISTORY OF THE UNIVERSE. 
According to Publisher's Weekly, the vivid collection underscores both the diversity and commonality among children, and may well inspire readers to imagine the lives and stories behind each child."  Kirkus Reviews says the photographs are so striking"  and bring such large delight,"  that you won't notice the text is a little platitudinous."  (Let's be honest we don't know what "platitudinous' means, and neither do your kids. And anyone who uses that word is not getting invited to our birthday parties.)
But in 100% seriousness, I'm really looking forward to the next few weeks because me, my girlfriend, my dog, my mom, my friends, my editor, and everyone involved in Little Humans thinks that this book came out perfect. It was really a labor of love. So I'm looking forward to seeing if you, your girlfriend, your dog, your mom, your friends, your editor, and your kids love Little Humans as much as we do. 
If you're planning on getting the book anyway, you can help my publisher get some sleep by preordering now. The book will ship on October 7th:
AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND:
After my son was born, there was a period of several months when I couldn't find a job. I looked everywhere. My mind was a mess. I felt angry toward everything. The lowest point was when my son got diagnosed with malnutrition. I hated myself."
(Ho Chi Minh City / Saigon, Vietnam)
Do you remember the happiest moment of your life?" The first time I kissed her."
(Ho Chi Minh City / Saigon, Vietnam)
The new recruits had to walk in front."
(Ho Chi Minh City / Saigon, Vietnam)
My father was in charge of land and forest management for the government of our area. Many men in similar positions grew quite rich, because it was an easy position to abuse. But my father never accepted any bribes. He lived a very simple life and wore the same three suits until the day he died. I still keep those suits to remember him."
(Ho Chi Minh City / Saigon, Vietnam)
Whenever my parents got mad, my sisters and I would climb into the branches of a tree behind our house. We'd play games up there and weave the leaves into our hair. Now whenever I have a bad customer or I'm getting yelled at by the boss, I try to imagine that tree."
(Ho Chi Minh City / Saigon, Vietnam)
Seen in Ho Chi Minh City / Saigon, Vietnam
What are you thinking about?" I come here to not think."
(Ho Chi Minh City / Saigon, Vietnam)
She's our only child. She started college in Michigan this year. I took this photo on the day that I dropped her off at school. The morning I left, I walked into her dorm room, and saw a bundle under the covers. I said: "Sweetie, do you want to say bye to your dad?' Then I saw that the bundle was shaking. I pulled back the covers, and her eyes were filled with tears. My heart was melting when I left. These days I stay at the office as long as possible, because my wife works late, and I don't want to be at home with no one there."
(Hanoi, Vietnam)
Our daughter was five months old when I got a scholarship to Johns Hopkins. My wife came with me to Baltimore so that our family could stay together. I will always be thankful for that sacrifice, because I know it was the toughest three years of her life. She didn't speak a word of English. We lived in a tiny studio so tiny that many times I did my studying in the bathroom. In Vietnam, she had a job where she was getting phone calls all day long. But in America, the phone never rang. She wasn't allowed to work because of visa requirements. Vietnamese holidays were regular days in America, so I'd be in class during New Year and we could never be together. Sometimes when I'd come home from school during wintertime, she'd look at me with tears in her eyes and say: "Tuan, I want to go home.' But she still stayed with me. When I finally got my degree, many of my friends asked if I'd look for a job in the US. But I wouldn't do that to her. She had done enough for me. So I said: 'We are going home immediately.' And as soon as we got back to Vietnam, she was like a fish back in the pond."
(Hanoi, Vietnam)
I wrote a comment. She liked the comment. I sent her a friend request."
(Ho Chi Minh City / Saigon, Vietnam)
We're gonna crash."
(Ho Chi Minh City / Saigon, Vietnam)
Do you remember the happiest moment of your life?" Every day when I get home from work."
(Hanoi, Vietnam)
The American jets were called Phantoms, because they appeared out of nowhere, and by the time you saw the plane, the rockets were already heading toward you. My friend and I were doing maintenance on the machinery when our factory was bombed. We heard the plane coming and tried to run toward the coal vault, but before we got there a missile tore him in half. 
(Hanoi, Vietnam)
When I pick him up from kindergarten, sometimes I stand quietly across the room, and watch him play with his friends. It just makes me so happy to know that I have a son and he is growing every day."
(Ho Chi Minh City / Saigon, Vietnam)
Who has had the greatest influence on you in life?" My father." What's your favorite thing about your father?" He's got a great heart." Do you remember the saddest moment of your life?" There was a short period of time when I was younger that my father would beat my mother. It made me very sad." Does that not affect your view of your father's heart?" It was a period of high stress. My mother had very high expectations of him and he wasn't making any money. I think she would mock him sometimes. I just want to leave it in the past. They're much happier now."
(Hanoi, Vietnam)
What's your biggest goal in life?" To afford to live."
(Chi Linh, Vietnam)
We'd get advanced warning when the American B-52's were going to bomb the enemy positions. These were the most frightening times of the war. We'd stuff cotton in our ears and our nose and shut our eyes tight and crouch down against the ground. The bombs didn't drop in one place. They spread out like sand. And if you weren't ready for them and happened to be standing up with your ears uncovered and your eyes open, the pressure alone could burst your heart or break a vessel in your brain. When they dropped their bombs, I don't think those pilots knew what it was like on the ground."
(Ho Chi Minh City \ Saigon, Vietnam)
I was in the infantry. We were stationed in Laos when we heard on the radio that the treaty was signed and the war was over. Everyone started celebrating and screaming and lifting each other in the air. None of us cared that we'd lost the war. We were so tired of fighting. When we heard the news, we started waving our arms and celebrating with the same North Vietnamese soldiers that we'd been shooting at the day before. The times had made us fight each other. But we were all still Vietnamese. 
(Ho Chi Minh City \ Saigon, Vietnam)
I have to leave the discipline to Mom. This one can feel that I'm about to yell at her before I say a word. So she runs up to me, gives me a hug, and starts crying right away. So how can I yell at her? And this one lets me yell at her, but her face turns very dark and resentful, and it's scary. So what am I supposed to do then? So I let Mom do the yelling. They are very attached to me. Everyone sleeps in the same bed, and they won't go to sleep unless they are resting their head on my shoulders. Dad's shoulders only. And it's hard to sleep. When I'm trying to sleep they, um, sometimes they, um, try to play with my nipples."
(Hanoi, Vietnam)
Just two baby monkeys hugging.
(Kathmandu, Nepal)
Seen in Kathmandu, Nepal.
Had a 24 hour stopover in Kathmandu, Nepal, where I visited the Pashupatinath Hindu Temple. The temple is popular with tourists, and the resident priests have become experts at "casually' positioning themselves in oh-so-photographical arrangements. They then collect donations in exchange for 'authentic' photographs. Motives aside, they do a beautiful job, and the scenes they create seem worthy of a Hollywood art director. 
(Kathmandu, Nepal)
He was swimming with his friends. When I asked for his photo, he screamed: He only asked me!"  Then he ran a victory lap, climbed on the boulder, twisted the tips of his mustache, and struck this pose.
(Kotla, India)
I can't see, so he guides me. Whenever I make a sound, he will come running. He reads to me. He cooks for me. And he got the second highest ranking in his 6th grade class."
(Nurpur, India)
I'll do this until something better comes along. Then I'll do that."
(Kotla, India)
Seen in Pathankot, India
They told me they'd only recently been married. I asked if it was an arranged marriage or a love marriage."  He answered: a love marriage."  I asked where they met, and he said: the telephone."  He then told me that he never actually saw her before the day of their wedding. So when did you fall in love?"  I asked.The third phone call,"  he said.
(Amritsar, India)
Today in microfashion
(Amritsar, India)
I've been fixing watches in this chair for almost sixty years. It required a lot more skill in the old days. Now I pretty much just replace batteries."
(Dharamshala, India)
We practiced for about thirty minutes before he actually called my parents. I pretended to be my mom, and tried to think of all the reasons she'd object to us getting married, and he practiced his rebuttals. The actual call was a lot easier than the rehearsal."
(New Delhi, India)
Seen in New Delhi, India.
I'm going to be an astronaut. There's another world out there. And I want to go there."
(Jammu, India)
Everyone appreciates her more than me. If something goes wrong, I'm always blamed for it. And mom lets her use the computer much more than me." That's because I watch educational videos and she plays games." That's not true, last time she was on the computer, I saw that she was playing a game."
(Jammu, India)
When my children are settled, I am going to retire and devote more time to my meditation. Every time you meditate, you get a little further from the world. You become more and more like the lotus, which grows in the water, but never touches the water." So what's the benefit of withdrawing from the world?" Meditation is like a glass of juice. I can describe the glass of juice to you. But you're not going to know the glass of juice until you taste it."
(Jammu, India)
Today in microfashion
(Pathankot, India)
I have a doctorate in Buddhist philosophy. Now I want to learn as many languages as possible so I can teach as many people as possible." What do you think is the most important thing that people can learn from Buddhism?" Compassion. Everyone suffers and everyone needs happiness."
(Dharamshala, India)
Before I went to the protest that day, I stood in front of a picture of the Dalai Lama, and I swore an oath: "If I am arrested, I will not give the names of any of my friends.' They put me through eight months of interrogation. They burned cigarettes on my face. They made me stand in ice for four hours, until my skin froze into the ice, and then they pushed me forward. They gave me electric shocks on my tongue. They told me they were going to kill my father and mother. After eight months, I had a trial. Two guards stood next to me when I testified, and they hid electric shocks in my sleeves in case I said something they didn't like. I was sentenced to four years. Sometimes I'd get so hungry I'd eat toothpaste. And sometimes I'd get so thirsty, I'd drink my urine. When I finally got out, I weighed 39 kilograms."
(Dharamshala, India)
It was March 5th, 1988. There was a prayer festival that day, so we thought it would be a good day to protest. It was entirely peaceful. We were only shouting three things: "Long live Dalai Lama,' 'Free Tibet,' and 'Bring Dalai Lama Back to Tibet.' First they fired tear gas, and then they started shooting. A girl standing next to me got shot in the heart. We ran into the temple, but they came in and kept shooting. I saw three young boys get thrown off the roof. I was shot, but I managed to escape, and two Tibetan doctors helped remove the bullet. One of the doctors worked for the Chinese army, but she still helped me as a Tibetan. Soon there were posters of me hanging up all over town. They said I was a dangerous monk. My friends dressed me in women's clothes. For a week, I wore lipstick and rings and long hair. But at one point I tried to visit my mother, and that is when they found me."
(Dharamshala, India)
I think a wonderful symbol of the Tibetan culture is the behavior of the stray dogs around their monastery. Most everywhere else I've traveled, stray dogs have been very skittish around humans. Here, they seemed right at home.
(Dharamshala, India)
We were eating lunch with the door open, and a monkey started to peek through the door."Isn't that cute?' we thought. 'Hello monkey,' we said. Then the situation quickly deteriorated. 


(Dharamshala, India)
I came to Dharamshala when I was nine years old. Back then, we weren't allowed to learn the Tibetan language in school, so my parents sent me to India. For a whole month we walked over the mountains. It was very snowy, and we only walked at night. One night I almost fell off a cliff, but one of the adults grabbed onto my hand and pulled me back up. It's been twenty years now since I last saw my parents. Just a few months ago, I had a really bad stomach problem and had to go to the hospital. Even though I'm an adult, I've never missed my mother more. Being that sick made me realize that I have nobody watching over me."
(Dharamshala, India)
I think the great fear of every Tibetan is that our story will die out. It's been over fifty years now since Tibet lost its independence. Our monasteries have been destroyed. The Chinese language curriculum is being mandated in our schools. More and more Han Chinese are moving into Tibet building homes, building malls. I think now we are all starting to think that the Chinese are too powerful and that the dream of returning home is fading away. I think our mistake was that we didn't keep up with the world. We held on to the monastic tradition too tightly. We didn't embrace modern education, and so we weren't connected with the outside world. Because of that, we lost our freedom silently. I think our challenge now is to educate our children in a modern way, so hopefully they will be better at sharing our story."
(Dharamshala, India)
The right to protest is very limited in Tibet. But the Chinese laws allow for ethnic minorities to practice their traditions. So every Wednesday, to demonstrate solidarity, Tibetans all over the world express their culture. They speak Tibetan, eat at Tibetan restaurants, and wear traditional Tibetan clothing. It's a form of silent protest. 
(Dharamshala, India)
I walked into a classroom where some young Tibetan students were practicing their chants, and all the kids suddenly grew very focused and well-behaved on account of the visitor. Except for this guy, who started laughing at me. Then he started laughing at himself laughing. Then he started laughing that he couldn't stop laughing at himself laughing.
(Dharamshala, India)
A bit of context on this next series of photos: Dharamshala, India is where the exiled government of Tibet resides. Led by the Dalai Lama, nearly 100,000 Tibetan refugees live in this northern Indian city, where they seek to maintain their traditions and culture in exile. The long journey from Tibet to India includes a grueling 28 day walk through the Himalayan mountains. Many of the refugees make this trek as children, sent by their parents in hopes of studying their language and religion in freedom. In conclusion, here's a young Tibetan monk playing with a kitten.
(Dharamshala, India)
My mother-in-law is giving me problems."
(Kotla, India)
My father was very simple, but everyone respected him. The former president of India came to his funeral, even though we weren't a wealthy or powerful family. Everyone saw my father as a peacemaker. Whenever there was a fight, he'd put himself in the middle and beg for it to stop. Once there were two groups of men fighting, and my father ran over to break up the fight. Someone threw a stone and it accidentally hit my father in the head. He was so respected, that as soon as the stone hit him, everyone went calm."
(New Delhi, India)
I don't have any dreams. What's the point? I'm poor. I don't have any skills. I wash the utensils in the kitchen that's what I do. But I like the girls I work with. We make fun together. I tell jokes. They tell jokes. I'm happy it's in my nature."
(New Delhi, India)
I used to drink a bottle a day. But then I met my guru. 
(Amritsar, India)
I've been overweight all my life. But I broke up with my boyfriend last year, and things weren't going well, so it got worse and worse. I'd try to diet, but I'd eat something that I wasn't supposed to. I'd try to go to the gym, but I'd leave early. I was trying to lose weight because I felt like I needed to be a different person. But time has passed now, and I think I'm approaching weight loss with a much more positive attitude. I know that I can be happy without losing weight. Sure, I wish I could wear prettier clothes. I wish I could take a photograph without my face looking like a football. But I know that I'm not my weight. And it's hard to come to that conclusion. You really have to battle to separate your self-image from your weight. Because weight is always the first thing that somebody sees. Somebody will see you after a few years, and their first comment is about the weight you've put on. Maybe I've become a better person these last few years. Maybe I've been a great friend to someone. Maybe I've read a lot of books and become smarter. Maybe the reason I've put on weight is that I've got a great job that can be stressful and doesn't leave me time to go to the gym."
(New Delhi, India)
I've got to stop being so emotional. If someone is sad, I normally start crying before they do."
(Amritsar, India)
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" If you feed your children with food earned from corruption, they will be corrupt. If you feed your children with food earned from honesty, they will be honest."
(Dharamsala, India)
He's very naughty. He won't play with his toys. He only plays with his kitchen utensils."
(Amritsar, India)
Thanks to all of you who came to the meet-up in Delhi. It went about as well as a spontaneous meet-up could possibly go. Amazingly, we were able to have a pretty organized, calm speech. Until the very end, of course, when we ran from the police. Coolest part for me was when the police were looking for someone to blame for the crowd, and asked: Who is he with?"  And everyone screamed in unison:All of us!"
Today in microfashion
(Jammu, India)
Some people still prefer the arranged marriage, especially in the countryside where tradition is still strong. The thought is that your parents know you very well, and will make the decision based on experience and not emotion. The divorce rate with arranged marriages is lower, because both families are heavily involved and there are many people committed to making the match work. But the tradition is on the way out. It used to be that you didn't even see your wife until your wedding day, and you fell in love after your wedding, as you learned to support and care for each other. But today there's Whatsapp and Facebook, so keeping two people apart is almost impossible. "Love marriages' are becoming much more popular than arranged marriages, and even arranged marriages involve much more interaction than they used to. Many families still choose to uphold the appearance of an arrangement. Their children will come to them and say: 'I fell in love.' And they'll say: 'OK, let us arrange it.'"
(Jammu, India)
At an Indian wedding, the bride has a tough act to follow
(Jammu, India)
Today in microfashion
(Jammu, India)
Let me tell you about my son. When Aditya was born, there was a very popular television show on the air, and the main character was named Lord Rama. Lord Rama was known as a revealer of truth. So I joked with my best friend that my son was going to be just like Lord Rama, and he was going to bring a great truth into the world. Sixteen years later, that very same friend called me while I was out of town on vacation. "Uptal!' he screamed. 'Uptal! Turn on the TV! Your son is on the TV! He's just like Lord Rama!''What channel?' I asked.'Any channel!' he screamed. So I turned on the television. And there he was. I hadn't known it, but while I was gone, he had started a petition on the internet. He was only sixteen years old at the time, and he had started an online petition calling for the government to reopen an old rape case. The case was nearly ten years old, and it involved the son of a very powerful government official. The son had raped and murdered a girl, and even though the evidence was overwhelming, he was only given three years in prison because of his family's connections. So Aditya started this petition to reopen the case. And soon it had millions of signatures! A sixteen year old boy! I couldn't believe it! I called his mother, and she was very scared. The men he was challenging were very powerful, and had many powerful friends. Soon Aditya was on the cover of every newspaper: 'Young Boy Challenges Mafia,"  the newspapers said. TV cameras were lining up in front of our house. His mother and I were very scared for him, and wanted him to lay low, but he insisted on doing every interview. He went on all the TV shows. Soon he started a protest right here at India Gate. He announced: 'I am going to sit here until the case is reopened.' Thousands of people joined him. All the famous musicians and Bollywood stars came to join him. The largest magazine in India called him 'the country's youngest icon.' Soon after the protest began, the chief judge of the Supreme Court announced he was reopening the case. When the new trial was finished, the man had been given a life sentence!
(New Delhi, India)
What's your biggest dream for your child?" We'll let him dream for himself."

(New Delhi, India)
The second date is going much better than the first one."
(New Delhi, India)
He told me that he could look at anyone's face, and tell them exactly what they need in life. I asked him to give me a try. He studied my face, looked up at the sky for a few seconds, then said: You don't need anything."
(Jammu, India)
We're praying for the souls of our ancestors."
(Jammu, India)
In Ukraine, they say that every man must do three things to fulfill his duty: plant a tree, have a child, and build a house. I planted a tree in grade school, I had a daughter fourteen years ago, but with how the economy has been, I'm starting to fear that I'll never have the money to build a house." What was the happiest moment you ever spent with your daughter?" I taught her to walk on a small playground near our house. I'd hold onto her hands and walk her around slowly. She was laughing so hard, and she was making noises the entire time, I could sense she was trying to tell me something." What do you think she was trying to tell you?" Just how happy she was to be there with me."
(Kyiv, Ukraine)
I'm 66, but I bike 55 kilometers every day. I don't get much from my pension, so I ride along this road and pick up metal scraps to bring to the collection center. I ride my bike everywhere. A few months ago, I rode 170 kilometers to visit my daughter. I left at noon and got there before dark. I wasn't even rushing!"
(Bila Tserkva, Ukraine)
Do you remember the happiest moment of your life?" When my daughter was born." What surprised you the most about parenthood?" The teenage years."
(Odessa, Ukraine)
When I was fifteen, I was raped by three boys while competing at a gymnastics tournament. I was so ashamed, that I stood on a train track, and waited for the train to come. At the last moment, I tried to jump away. I woke up after a month. It was the middle of the night, and I could immediately tell that something was missing. I started feeling all over my body, and that's when I realized that I'd lost my arm. Now I counsel teenagers who have been diagnosed with HIV. I'm normally the first to meet with them after they get their results. I try to explain to them that there's a way out of even the most impossible situations."
(Odessa, Ukraine)
Ukraine has suffered so much. We've lost so many people to war and famines and historical events. Almost seven million Ukrainians were killed in World War II, more than any other country. We don't need much in this country. We're not an imperialistic people. We aren't very warlike. Our land is covered with black soil, so we can grow everything we need. We just need peace."
(Baryshivka, Ukraine)
Do you remember the proudest you'e ever been of your son?" The time he asked me to buy some tools so he could make his grandmother a bird feeder."
(Bila Tserkva, Ukraine)
What's the plan if the farmer comes?"
Run."

(Korzhi, Ukraine)
What do you want to be when you grow up?" A dad." What will be the best part of being a dad?" Buying myself a skateboard." (Odessa, Ukraine)
She initially said no"  when I asked for a photo, but another old woman walked by, and began speaking passionately in Ukrainian. Apparently convinced by the words of the passerby, the woman shrugged, and posed for the picture. After everything was finished, I asked my translator: What did that other woman say?" She said: "You must not refuse a photo, because you must represent the women of your land. Now go to eternity!'" (Odessa, Ukraine)
I fell in love with a girl who, logically, I knew was not a good match for me. It didn't end well. Afterwards, I made a short film based on the relationship basically saying that you shouldn't let your heart overrule your head. And now I've made the exact same mistake with another girl."

(Odessa, Ukraine)
I'm afraid of everything. I've been reading psychology books to try to figure out why. Logically, I know everything is fine. I know that I'm only twenty, and I have so many blessings and advantages. Yet I'm afraid I haven't accomplished enough yet. I'm afraid of the future. Afraid of getting older. Afraid of being alone. Afraid of having a child. And afraid of the dark. I'm really, really afraid of the dark." (Kiev, Ukraine)
We went to war when we were 18."
What's your strongest memory from the war?"
My unit was being transported by train when German planes began to attack us. We jumped out and started to run across a field. I had to carry my wounded friend on my shoulders, so I was moving pretty slow. One of the planes circled around, and dropped a bomb right near me. I felt something hit me in the back and I got thrown to the ground. I thought for sure I was hit, but I couldn't see any blood. When I finally got to some cover, I pulled my backpack off my back, and saw that it had a giant hole in it. When I opened it up, I discovered that a piece of shrapnel had torn through everything and lodged itself in the leather sole of my boot."

(Bila Tserkva, Ukraine)
What's your biggest goal in life?"
To be useful."

(Odessa, Ukraine)
I've been a professor of marine biology for 64 years."
So with all that you've learned about the ocean during that time, what amazes you the most?"
It's huge."

(Odessa, Ukraine)
We had our first day of kindergarten yesterday, and I'm already starting to mentally prepare myself for the first boyfriend." (Kiev, Ukraine)
We had our first day of kindergarten yesterday, and I'm already starting to mentally prepare myself for the first boyfriend." (Kiev, Ukraine)
Seen in Bila Tserkva, Ukraine.
What has been your greatest accomplishment in life?" When I was young, my best friend and I were taking an exam to qualify for pilot school. I knew all the answers so I raced through the exam, but my best friend was struggling with the math. So I leaned over and tried to help him, but we both got caught and were automatically failed. I didn't get to be a pilot, but I've always felt good about trying to help my friend become one." (Korzhi, Ukraine)
We just woke up from our nap. It's an emotional time." (Korzhi, Ukraine)
Today in microfashion

(Kiev, Ukraine)
What's your greatest struggle right now?" I adopted a son about six months ago. He's 3.5 years old, and we've been having difficulty with his behavior. If he was here right now, he'd be running around, pulling up plants, and hitting things with sticks. He's spent all his life in an orphanage, and was deprived of adult attention. The psychologist tells us that's the reason he's acting out." What's been your happiest moment with your son?" One morning I was standing in the kitchen, and he hugged me without me asking." (Korzhi, Ukraine)
I got into Ukraine late in the evening after 30 hours of travel and about 2 hours of sleep. I was looking forward to sleeping most of the day, but woke up early to a text from my translator: School begins today. So if you can find a school by 9 AM, you'll find Ukrainian children with flowers in their hair." (Kiev, Ukraine)

I found her crushing up rocks and loading them onto the back of a truck, for which she got paid just a few dollars a day. But she also told me she was enrolled in school, and had high ambitions. Maybe I'll be President,"  she said, laughing.What would you do if you were?"  I asked.I'd take all the children off the street, bring them somewhere, and teach them,"  she said. Afterwards, she wrote down her name and email, so I could send her the picture. Her name was "Innocent Gift.'(Juba, South Sudan)






When he first came to us, he wasn't talking. He was about four years old, but we knew nothing else about him. Occasionally, he'd imitate the other children, but he'd express no thoughts of his own. He couldn't tell us anything about his home, his family, or where he came from. To make matters worse, aid workers had further confused him by suggesting hometowns to him which he had readily agreed to. So we started with a completely blank slate. We drew a house on a piece of paper, and we said: "Is this your home?' And he said: 'No! You forgot the gate!' So we drew a gate. And he said: 'But you forgot the tree!' So we drew a tree.
Piece by piece, day by day, we filled in a picture of his home. He was still very reserved and traumatized, so the process took over a month. But we met in the safety of my office every day, and we figured it out. It was like putting together a puzzle. The saddest moment was when we drew his father. 'You have to draw him laying down,' the boy said. 'I tried to get him to come with me, but he wouldn't.'
When we eventually used the drawings to identify the boy's hometown and find his mother, she confirmed our fears. The boy had disappeared after seeing his father get shot."

(Juba, South Sudan)
When violence broke out in Sudan last December, Michael was shot twice in the leg while he was walking home from school. Michael is a member of the Nuer tribe, and his shooting was a hate crime committed against him by members of the Dinka tribe. I sat down to talk with him at the  Center, in the presence of Cathy, the center's director. Before we even broached the subject of the shooting, Cathy spoke with Michael for several minutes. In a particularly beautiful moment, Cathy had Michael list all the members of the Dinka tribe who had helped in his recovery. Eventually, Cathy asked Michael if he wanted to talk about the shooting. He shook his head "no.' Not wanting to push the issue, I quickly changed the topic. I pulled out my iPhone, and began to show Michael pictures of . He took the phone from me, and spent several minutes scrolling through all my photos. Later that night, after I returned to the hotel, I found an unexpected new picture on my phone.(Juba, South Sudan)
I visited the  Center in Juba, a place where displaced children in South Sudan are given shelter, an education, affection, and a second chance. I was greeted by Cathy, the center's director. She was very kind, but also a bit nervous about my presence. She'd been briefed about my interview process. We can talk about happy moments,"  she said. But let's not ask these children about their saddest moments, or times they felt afraid. Many of them were malnourished, abandoned, or regularly sexually abused. Some of them have witnessed extreme violence. When journalists ask them to relive these memories, it can set them back for an entire month. They begin to act out. Often their trauma is so bad, that when the children first arrive, they can be very hateful toward me. But I feel blessed by the hate. Because I know it's part of the healing process. And if they need someone to hate so that they can heal, I'm glad it can be me." A few minutes after this conversation, a young girl walked up to Cathy, gave her a hug, and ran away. Cathy seemed quite moved. That girl was very badly abused,"  she said. She's been here for months. And that's the first time she's ever hugged me." (Juba, South Sudan)
What's your biggest goal in life?" I haven't figured that out yet." (Juba, South Sudan)
I want to build myself a house like Obama's house." (Juba, South Sudan)
He likes bright things." (Juba, South Sudan)
I'm not a politician. All I can do is to pray the bad things move away from us." (Juba, South Sudan)
It's tough to be a journalist in this country. I've been arrested four times. It's very difficult to get information. Government institutions are forbidden to talk to you. Ordinary people are extremely suspicious, because they think you might be security services. But it's very important work. People need to know where the oil money is going, who's benefiting from the contract, where the proceeds are being used. The ordinary person doesn't know, and has never before needed to know. For decades, people have been conditioned to the idea that only government officials can make decisions on their behalf. It will take some time for the country to learn individual responsibility. It will take time and education to teach ourselves. But I believe that education is like cleaning yourself. And I think if you come back in fifteen or twenty years, this will be a very different country. With education, the spirit of being hostile will vanish." (Juba, South Sudan)
When the fighting started, we ran and hid in a school. But soon, they pulled up a car with a large machine gun mounted on the back. They began to fire through the walls. My children and I ran in different directions. I ran into the bush and cried for four days because I was sure they were dead. But when I finally made it here, I found them here too." (Tongping Internally Displaced Persons Site, Juba, South Sudan)
What's your largest goal in life?" To find my children. They are five and seven. I told them I was taking a short trip to Juba, and I'd be back in a couple days, but then I got stranded by the fighting. They were crying so loud about my leaving, I had to sneak away while one was playing and one was sleeping. That was almost a year ago. I haven't even been able to hear how they are doing." (Tongping Internally Displaced Persons Site, Juba, South Sudan)


After we were rescued, I ended up studying in Kenya. I joined  and began to work in child services. My goal was to never let anything happen to children that happened to me. When the most recent fighting broke out in South Sudan, I was in Lebanon working with displaced Syrian children. I was helping to conduct psychological assessments and provide trauma counseling. I was on Facebook one night when I saw my newsfeed fill up with reports of fighting. I called all my friends and family, and told them: "The fighting is between military men, stay in your homes.' Then I started seeing reports that the fighting was turning ethnic. So I called everyone back, and said: Find the nearest UN compound and take shelter."  A few days later, I requested to be transferred to , because I knew I was needed at home.(Tongping Internally Displaced Persons Site, Juba, South Sudan)






She said she wanted to be a pilot, and when I asked why, she spoke two words. My translator said: She says, something like: "I want to be able to control myself in the air.'" But what exactly did she say?"  I asked.'Kuar Nhial,' he answered. 'It means: 'I'll be the leader of the air.'" (Tongping Internally Displaced Persons Site, Juba, South Sudan)
The army asked for donations. I was the smallest one in the family, so I was given. I was seven or eight. I heard my parents arguing. My mother didn't want me to go, because I was her only child. But a few nights later, my father brought me a new white robe, and told me I was going to go to school. When I first arrived at the military camp, I was scared to see the guns. In the morning we would go to school, in the evening we would train with the guns. But there were many children there who I grew up with and played with, I eventually felt more comfortable. After a few weeks, they marched us to Ethiopia for training. We never made it there. We ran out of food and water on the way." Are you angry with your father?" I speak with him regularly now. I've forgiven him. And in the end, I would have never been educated if he hadn't sent me away. But I was very angry with him when we were dying. While we marched, the children who gave up would sit down in the shade. We would tell them not to sit but they'd say, "I'll catch up later.' And they never would. I saw many of them get eaten by wild animals." (Tongping Internally Displaced Persons Site, Juba, South Sudan)
Her teacher told me that: At school, we only talk about school. The children need something to help them forget about what happened."  When I asked her what was the best thing she'd learned so far, she said:My ABCDs and my 1234s. (Tongping Internally Displaced Persons Site, Juba, South Sudan)
This woman spoke about how she had been visiting her sister in Juba when the fighting broke out, and had been unable to return home. To make matters worse, she had left her older children behind in her village, because she thought it would just be a short trip. She had not seen them in nearly a year. As I was interviewing her, she kept a very resigned, unsmiling, faraway look on her face, which can be seen in the previous post. But when we finished, my translator asked her what village she was from. When she told him, he pulled out his phone. I've just been to your hometown on an aid mission,"  he said, I can show you photos."  As he scrolled through photos of her village, her expression suddenly changed.(Tongping Internally Displaced Persons Site, Juba, South Sudan)
I've seen a lot of death." (Tongping Internally Displaced Persons Site, Juba, South Sudan)
South Sudan is a difficult place to explain. It's one of those places where it is impossible to separate the political and the personal, because the dominant themes of every personal life have been shaped by political circumstances. Very few people in South Sudan have hopes, fears, happiest moments, and saddest moments, that are entirely divorced from the conflict that has enveloped the country. The fighting here has been going on for so long, that the root causes of the violence are complex, interwoven, and difficult to ascertain. South Sudan was established as a country in 2011, following a 20 year civil war with northern Sudan. This war was largely a religious and ethnic conflict, which often descended into genocide most famously in the Darfur region. Millions of civilians were killed. Three years ago, when South Sudan finally achieved it's independence from the north, there was a great deal of optimism. But late last year, a political battle between President Salva Kiir and Vice President Riek Machar ignited a new civil war. Because the two men were from different tribes, the fighting has once again broken out along ethnic lines. Ethnic war is an an especially deadly sort of conflict because it can easily spill over into civilian populations.Fighting in the new civil war is largely between the Dinka and the Nuer, South Sudan's two dominant tribes. Many of the posts from the next few days were collected at an Internally Displaced Persons Site within the UN compound in Juba. The people in these posts are members of the Nuer tribe. When fighting broke out, they stormed the gates of the UN to escape an unfolding massacre at the hands of Dinka fighters. Over the course of a few days, thousands of Nuer were gunned down in the capital city, where they represented a significant minority. In other parts of the country, Dinka were killed with equal indiscrimination in heavily Nuer regions. I provide this context only to make clear that this is not a story of victim vs. aggressor. But rather the latest outbreak of violence in a new country with a troubled history that is filled with violence, distrust, and racial animosities. But South Sudan is also a country filled with millions of civilians who are desperately, and with the greatest difficulty, trying to transcend this history and establish a society based on democratic and equalitarian ideals. But burdened by decades of resentment, revenge, and almost ceaseless fighting, it is proving to be an extremely difficult climb.
The thing we need most is security. Without security, nothing works. We are only out here playing chess because right now, in this place, we have a little bit of security. But that's just for right now just this moment. In this country things have never been secure for long. In America, there is always security. And that's why America works." (Juba, South Sudan)
My father left for war in 1992, and never came home. Our mother didn't tell us he was dead for a long time. We just thought he was still fighting. But one day we were being extremely difficult, and she started crying, and said: Please behave. I'm a single mother now. So I'm going to need you're help." (Juba, South Sudan)
Today in microfashion(Juba, South Sudan)
He told me he wanted to be a soccer star,"  but wouldn't say much else, probably because his teammates were hovering around him. But later on, when I asked the coach who the strongest player was, he pointed out this boy. We made him captain,"  the coach explained, Because he takes it the most seriously. If we lose, he won't talk for the rest of the day. He always shows up early to practice. If we're not around, he organizes the team and has them ready when we arrive. And if anyone loses their temper during the game, he'll reprimand them and tell them to just focus on winning." (Juba, South Sudan)
Our team is called the Young Boys. We grew up in this neighborhood, so we wanted to give the local kids something to do after school. We bought them balls and shoes with our own money, and for game days, we go around and beg local churches for a place to play. We want to keep them very busy so they don't have time for bad things. We don't want to see anyone on our team wandering the streets. We practice every other day. The girls have their practice on our days off."

(Juba, South Sudan)
This may be the happiest I've ever been to write a post. Last year, as many of you probably remember, we held a crowdfunding campaign to help a family with adoption fees. The Watkins family had already adopted an eight year old daughter from Ethiopia. They were so happy with their new family, they decided to adopt a ten year old boy named Rabuma, who they had discovered in an orphanage. They knew that Rabuma was destined to be their new son, but were heartbroken because they didn't have the money to bring him home yet. 4,000 of you donated to help make this family a reality. Over the past year, the Watkins have been sending me periodic updates, but I didn't want to share them because I didn't want to jeopardize the process. But everything just finalized. By a beautiful coincidence, the Watkins happened to pick up Rabuma while I was in Africa. So between destinations, I took a two hour detour to Ethiopia to photograph the occasion. It was such an honor for me to be present at the birth of this new family. The love that had already developed between them just filled the room.
I want to be a nurse."

(Jinja, Uganda)
I row 16 kilometers per day. A few weeks ago, I was in Germany for the Junior World Championships. My goal is to make the Olympics one day. But it can be tough to compete with the European countries. We don't have the gym equipment that they have. And they practice with actual racing boats. We only get to use the racing boats during the race."

(Kampala, Uganda)
What's the most important thing your mother has taught you?"
If you buy food, you should always eat it with someone else."

(Kampala, Uganda)
I want to be an engineer." What advice would you give other engineers?" If you build a house that collapses, you're going to get arrested. So you need to keep using the pendulum to make sure that everything is straight. Also, your cement mix has to be strong. You also need to be careful with the builders that you hire, or they will steal the cement from you." What sort of building would you build?" A factory that makes new books, so that everyone can have new books for school. All of my books are old and have writing in them." (Entebbe, Uganda)
I've sold fish in the market for the last thirty years, because I never had the chance to go to university. Recently my daughter graduated from Makerere, which is one of the best schools in the country. When I walked through the gates to attend her graduation, I felt so happy, because I never thought I'd see the inside of a university." (Kampala, Uganda)
Do you remember the saddest moment of your life?" It's my secret." (Kampala, Uganda)
I spent four years studying to get a degree in law, and I've spent almost as long trying to find a job. Here, unless you're the family of someone in government, nobody will hire you. I sold my last cow, and now my money is almost completely gone. I'm getting evicted so I'll have no choice but to go back to the village with my grandparents. At least we have farms there. After all this time in school, I've almost forgotten how to dig. (Kampala, Uganda)
I have to work thirteen hours a day, so I don't get to see her very much. But I'm getting older. So I'm afraid if I don't work all I can now, there might be a time that I can't support my family anymore." (Kampala, Uganda)
Do you remember the happiest moment of your life?" One day, I was sent home from my final exams because my mother had not been able to pay the registration fees. On the way home, a man came up to me and asked what was wrong. "Nothing,' I told him. He asked me again. So I told him that I'd been sent home from school. He then gave me the money I needed to take my exams. I'd never seen him before, and I've never seen him again." (Entebbe, Uganda)
Some old man suggested we climb a tree. We thought he was crazy, but we found two fruits up there. One was really big, and the other was small. So we ate the big one right away, just in case anyone in the village asked us to share." (Jinja, Uganda)
What's the most important thing your dad has ever taught you?" If someone hurts your feelings, don't worry, because that person will also have a turn to get their feelings hurt. And also, you should never undermine people or make them feel unimportant. And also, if you drop out of school, he won't deal with you anymore." (Kampala, Uganda)


My mother and I did not have a good relationship, but we grew much closer after my daughter was born. Because I had no idea what I was doing. When the baby was born three months early, my mom slept at the hospital with her." (Kampala, Uganda)




They sometimes ask me about their grandmother, and I only tell them about the good times. I don't want to worry them with all the things my mother and I had to go through when I was growing up." What's your fondest memory of your mother?" We were so poor that every day she'd have to go out and try to find us some food. And on the days when she came home empty handed, she'd help us forget our hunger by putting on music and dancing for us." (Jinja, Uganda)

My brother and I got in a fight, and now he can't get a job. So he's actually convinced I put a voodoo spell on him." (Kampala, Uganda)






The landlord doesn't care how much furniture you've sold this month." (Kampala, Uganda)
A few days before she died, my mom called us all together and told us that she'd had a dream. She said that she dreamed she had died, and that she met my dad in heaven. She begged my dad to let her stay with him, but he told her: "You have to go back. Or there will be nobody to raise our kids.' Three days later she got a very bad ache in her stomach, and we rushed her to the hospital. She lived for about a week, but she was unconscious the entire time. It was Christmas time, so on Christmas Eve I went and sat by her bed. At one point she sat up, opened her eyes, and looked right at me. I said: 'Mom! Mom! Mom!' But she laid back down, closed her eyes, and never opened them again." (Jinja, Uganda)
What's your greatest struggle as a teacher?" I have to be strict to help them improve. But if I'm strict, they think I'm against them." (Kampala, Uganda)
Who's the better player?" I am. He's too scared to sacrifice his pieces. He hasn't learned that sometimes you need to lose two to gain three." (Kampala, Uganda)
Do you remember the proudest you've ever felt of your daughter?" At church one Sunday, the preacher was giving a sermon about nonviolence. Afterwards we were walking home, and she saw another child getting hit by her mother. She tugged on my sleeve, and said: "Mom, the preacher said not to do that.'" (Kampala, Uganda)
I asked the mother for a photo, but she said the decision was up to her son. So I asked the boy. He stood up, walked over, looked me up and down, and said: Prove to me you're not a terrorist." (Kampala, Uganda)
A few years ago, I got a call on my cell phone from a twelve year old child from my village. He was calling me from a bus stop. He'd taken a bus into the city alone, and he was calling me to ask if I could help him find a way to go to school. Both of his parents had died of AIDS, and he had no money for tuition. I told him to stay where he was, and left work immediately to pick him up. At first I was very mad at him. He should not have travelled alone. But then I looked at him and I saw myself. I'd also been desperate to go to school after my father was killed, but we had no money. So even though I was suffering myself, I told him I would try to help him. My salary was not enough, so I tried many things to get the money. After work, I went to the landfill to hunt for recyclables. But after I paid to have them cleaned, there was no money left. Now I'm trying to make bricks. I have a small operation in the village to make bricks, and I sell them in the city. It doesn't make much money, but it's enough to pay tuition for the boy and three of his siblings. (Kampala, Uganda)
I was seven years old when it happened. It was about 9 pm at night. We heard the neighbors screaming so we knew that the rebels were in the village. There were many people visiting in my house at the time, so all the men gathered in the main room. We had no guns, only knives. Soon the dog started barking, then we heard footsteps, and then we heard a knock on the door. They started calling for my father to come out. We didn't answer, so they started shooting into the house. Everyone pushed against the door to try to keep it closed, but they knocked it down. My father saw that he couldn't run, so he gave himself up. They took him away. Then they gathered all the men and boys, and marched us out of the back of the house. My brother tried to jump and climb up on the roof, but they saw him and shot him. I knew I had to try something different, so I waited until we were rounding a corner, and I jumped into a bush, and I kept crawling until I reached the other side, then I got up and ran. I ran all the way to the neighbor's house, but they turned me away and locked the door. So I hid all night in the graveyard. The next day I returned to my house. They'd taken everything. They dumped my sick mother onto the floor and took her mattress. I found my father's body in the barn. They'd cut off his arms and his legs." (Kampala, Uganda)
I dropped out of college to start my own business. Some study the roots, and others pick the fruits." (Kampala, Uganda)
Even if you punish her, she's singing two minutes later." (Nairobi, Kenya)
I want to be a pilot." What will be the hardest part about being a pilot?" When the plane crashes." (Nairobi, Kenya)
I'm trying to penetrate the market."
(Nairobi, Kenya)
I want to be a lawyer."
(Nairobi, Kenya)
On the closing day of school, they chose him to be a presenter at the awards ceremony. He got up on stage and sang ‘The Wind Beneath My Wings.’Did you cry?Of course I did.(Nairobi, Kenya)
When they don't think I'm watching, they do the funniest things. They are always dancing together. I found them in the kitchen yesterday, pretending to cook." What's your greatest worry as a parent?" Their health. They're always getting sick from the cold and the dust. Sometimes the dust gets so bad, they lose their voices." (Nairobi, Kenya)
My father was very strict growing up. He’d never give me any space. If I tried to cut school with my friends, he’d call my teachers to ask how I did in class that day. I resented it at the time, but today I’m thankful for it. Because all my friends who never got caught are not doing too well today.(Nairobi, Kenya)
She gives lots of kisses when she comes home from school. (Nairobi, Kenya)
What’s surprised you most about being a parent?The feeling of being called ‘Dad.’ It’s the best feeling on earth. The first time my daughter called me ‘Dad,’ we were playing hide and go seek. I was pretending that I couldn’t find her, and I kept searching and searching, until finally she screamed: ‘Dad!’ It almost made me cry. It made me feel like Superman.’(Nairobi, Kenya)
Camera Shy(Nairobi, Kenya)
Everything was fine at breakfast. We talked normally. I went to work thinking that it was just a normal day. Then when I came home, the door was locked, which was strange, but I didn’t think much of it. Everything seemed to be in place when I went inside the house. So I sat down and watched TV, expecting them to come home any minute. After awhile, I went upstairs to the bedroom. And that’s when I noticed all her clothes were missing. Then I ran to the children’s room, and all their clothes were missing too. After seventeen years, she left me without saying a word. (Nairobi, Kenya)
She likes to read, so I take her to the library for 2 hours every day. We mainly read books about animals." (Nairobi, Kenya)
My mother died when I was three. I don't remember much about her. But I do remember, when she was very sick at the hospital, she said to me: "Never let a man steal your life.'" (Nairobi, Kenya)
I'd been studying German for a few years, and I met this woman who gave me the opportunity to go to Germany for a full year. The brochure looked very nice. The program included hikes, volunteer work, singing in church. It was very expensive, but my family thought it would be a great experience for me, so all my relatives chipped in to pay the program fee. I was so excited for months. On the day that I was supposed to leave, I went to the airport, and waited in line to check my baggage. When I got to the front of the line, they told me that my ticket was a forgery. When I tried to call the woman's phone, it had been disconnected. (Nairobi, Kenya)
We just sit here and watch everything." What's the weirdest thing you've ever seen?" Nothing too weird. We go inside before the sun goes down." (Nairobi, Kenya)
Do you want to hear a funny story from when he was a baby? We were a little worried about him, because the neighbor's children were the same age, and they were already walking. So we tried to encourage him by buying some tiny shoes and putting them on his feet. He didn't walk, but he did say his first words: "Take them off!'" (Nairobi, Kenya)
Sometimes, in busier neighborhoods, a crowd begins to gather when I conduct my interviews. In this case, it was a particularly large crowd of 15 or 20 people. As the man recounted his happiest moment, the crowd laughed along with him. He told about a wild night out with his friends, and the crowd shouted encouragements. Some people were patting him on the back. Then the interview turned to sadder moments. And he began to talk about the death of his mother. Tears began streaming down his face. And seeing this, the crowd respectfully disappeared.
(Nairobi, Kenya)
He's only five years old, but he acts like an old man. Just now, he was just telling us that he was tired of our immature jokes. He doesn't even like to play. After school, he usually comes straight home and reads."
(Nairobi, Kenya)
Her father and brother died in the same month. She developed a very bad problem in her head after that. For months, she would barely move. I was so worried about her that I took her to hospitals, and nothing worked. It was the hardest time of my life. But now she is better. She's the greatest wife. Every time I come home, she makes me tea and thanks me for working all day." How did she fix her sadness?" None of the hospitals could help. But we just kept praying together."
(Naivasha, Kenya)
She shares her yogurt with me."
(Nairobi, Kenya)
I first learned that I was crippled when I was eight. We played a game in the yard where we would race and do somersaults. When even the youngest kids beat me, I knew I had a problem. Then when it was time to go to school, I was the only one who couldn't go, because it was a very far walk." Do you remember the saddest moment of your life?" When I turned twenty, I had this moment where I realized that I hadn't been able to get any education. And suddenly I knew that I'd probably never have a family."
(Nairobi, Kenya)
My happiest moments were when my mom was still alive." What's your fondest memory of your mother?" One time when I was six years old, we went to pick up my father at the airport. On the way, my mother explained to me the concept of boarding a plane and taking a trip. And then while we waited for my father, we sat in a nearby restaurant, and we planned out all the imaginary trips that I wanted to go on."
(Nairobi, Kenya)
What's your favorite thing about your brother?" He does all the work."
(Limuru, Kenya)
I was about to leave for work the other day, so I stopped in her room to wake her up. And the first thing she said was: "Dad, I need a surprise.' I said: 'You need a what?'She said: 'I need a surprise.' So I ran to the store and got her a doll, brought it to her, and went to work."
(Nairobi, Kenya)
When we graduate, my friend and I want to start an organization to teach people in rural areas how to read. I was volunteering at a clinic last year, and I saw a child die of Cholera because the mother couldn't remember the prescription instructions."
(Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo)
What's your biggest dream?" To be the mother of a doctor, the mother of a minister, and the mother of an engineer."
(Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo)
It's always been my dream to have a successful business. I'd like one day to open more stores, and maybe even expand into the provinces. But the conditions are very difficult to start a business. Taxes are very high and services are very limited. The electricity was out for eleven days last month, but I still had to pay for thirty days. And when I try to use a generator, the costs are so high that the customers stop coming. It's very difficult."
(Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo)
I'm embarrassed to say this, but I'll say it. I've had a really hard time finding work, so I've been living with my grandmother. And she's told me recently that she doesn't have the money to feed me. So I've been eating at my friend's house. I go over there, and I'm too embarrassed to ask for anything, but his dad always insists. He says: "Why aren't you eating? Please, eat!' This has really caused my idea of 'family' to widen. I've learned that your family can be anyone."
(Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo)
It's very difficult to get a job on the basis of your education. All the people who have jobs to give, give it to their family. Not only does it benefit their family members, but it benefits them as well, because now they have less dependents."
(Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo)
I want to discover the cure for Ebola."
(Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo)
There is a stigma in this country around women with jobs. So I want to start an organization that provides girls in the Congo with examples of women around the world who have balanced family and career. Most men in this country think it's only about money. They think: "If I make enough money for us to live, then my wife should take care of the children.' The common belief is that a woman who works is hurting her children. People don't realize that children also gain from the knowledge and experiences of their mother." (Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo)
What's the score?" 2 - 0" Who scored the goals?" I scored them both." (Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo)
The youngest one is the most courageous. If somebody is picking on her sister in Sunday school, she'll go after them! (Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo)
I'm studying law. My dream is to be a judge one day. Too many people in this country are only in prison because they were too poor to defend themselves. When I'm a judge, I'll look only at the facts, and not at the person."

(Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo)
We don't like pictures like this. It is not good to deduce an entire country to the image of a person reaching out for food. It is not good for people to see us like this, and it is not good for us to see ourselves like this. This gives us no dignity. We don't want to be shown as a country of people waiting for someone to bring us food. Congo has an incredible amount of farmland. An incredible amount of resources. Yes, we have a lot of problems. But food is not what we are reaching for. We need investment. We need the means to develop ourselves. 

(Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo)
I'm studying to be a civil engineer. Congo needs everything: bridges, roads, buildings, wells. The country is like a workshop."

(Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo)
Too many questions."
(Kasangulu, Democratic Republic of Congo)
When I was thirteen years old, government troops passed through our town when they were fleeing the rebels. At first I heard the gunfire, and then they came into our house and took everything they could. I was hiding under the bed. I heard them say they were going to kill my mother. One of them took off all my sister's clothes. But at the last moment he was pulled away, because the other soldiers told him there wasn't time for that."
(Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo)
What is your biggest dream?" To have my own house. With two stories."
(Kasangulu, Democratic Republic of Congo)
I've had to run from war twice. Both times I left good jobs behind, and it was very painful. The second time was the worst. I thought I'd escaped a hopeless situation, and then it happened again. You can feel when war is coming to your town. Traffic picks up. People's faces begin to look very worried. Nobody cares for each other. If someone talks to you, you can tell that they want the conversation to end as soon as possible. The second time I had to run, I thought: "This time I have to get as far away as possible.' So I came all the way to Kinshasa." Were you worried the war would reach Kinshasa?" No. Because the wars have all been about Kinshasa. So if the war reaches Kinshasa, the war is over." (Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo)
I have a one-and-a-half year old daughter at home. There are two things that we do every day. When I get home from work in the evening, she runs to me, and asks me to buy her a sausage. And every morning when she wakes up at exactly 5:30 AM  she needs to go to the bathroom, and she screams for me to bring her the pot. She never screams for Mom. Just for me. How this became my job, I don't know. (Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo)
I'm listening to music about God. (Kasangulu, Democratic Republic of Congo)
I'd like them to be ministers or business people. But this one is supposed to start school this year, and I don't have the money to send him. (Kasangulu, Democratic Republic of Congo)
She said she'd let me take her photo if I bought some peanuts from her. Afterward, I asked if she could remember the saddest moment of her life. She laughed, and said: You're going to need to buy some more peanuts." (Kasangulu, Democratic Republic of Congo)
I'm studying to be a lawyer. He likes books about frogs. (Kasangulu, Democratic Republic of Congo)
I enjoy every bit of it. Every moment is precious. But, when you get older, if I'm being honest, every once in awhile, sometimes, you just need a bit of quiet."  (Amman, Jordan)
He lived with his mother in Gaza when he was very young. One night, I talked to him on the phone before bedtime, and he told me he was wearing three pairs of pants to bed. I said: "Three pairs of pants? Why aren't you in your pajamas?' He told me: 'Because I want my body to hold together if a bomb falls on me.'"  (Petra, Jordan)
Seen in Sweimeh, Jordan
He runs to me every time I come home. It makes me very happy, and it reminds me of the times when I used to run to my father."  (Al-Salt, Jordan)
How did I become a community leader? Every time there's a wedding, I go to say "Congratulations.' Every time there's a funeral, I go to say: 'I'm sorry.'"  (Al-Salt, Jordan)
My brother went to college in America, and it was very hard for my parents to send him there. My father worked two jobs. I'd always hear him talking to my mother about money troubles. So when I graduated from high school, I went straight to work, to help pay for my brother's school. I never resented it, because I knew he was more intelligent than me, and he deserved it. But now he has a great job in Australia, and I wish that I'd gone to college. But you know what? That same brother married into a family with two sisters. He married the older sister. And at the wedding, I met the younger sister, we danced, and now we are married. Her name means "angel,' and she is my angel. And I tell her every day that she's better than being a millionaire. So my brother got his job. And I got my wife."  (Dhana, Jordan)
I get way too sensitive when I get attached to someone. I can detect the slightest change in the tone of their voice, and suddenly I'm spending all day trying to figure out what I did wrong."  (Amman, Jordan)
What are your hopes for them?" We left our hopes back in Syria." (Zaatari Refugee Camp, Jordan)
One day I drove into the city to buy goods for my shop. I repaired antennas and satellite dishes, so I needed some replacement parts. But on the road there was a checkpoint for the Syrian government, and two soldiers came up to my car. They began to argue with each other. "Let's take him,' said one of them. 'Let him go,' said the other. And they went back and forth, and back and forth. But finally the first man won the argument, and they took me out of my car, put a blindfold on me, and took me to jail. When I got to the jail, they began beating me with a cord. They asked me if I supported the rebels. I kept saying 'No,' but they kept beating me. They took off all my clothes. They said: 'We are going to whip you 35 times, and if you say 'ouch,' we will start from the beginning. They whipped me and kicked me and broke 3 of my ribs. They said: 'Tell us how many soldiers you've killed.' I said: 'None.'They said: 'Tell us how many soldiers!" I said: 'None. I haven't killed anyone.'But they kept beating me and they ripped off my toenails and I screamed: 'Eleven! Eleven! I killed eleven soldiers!' So they put me into prison. But I never killed any soldiers. I never fought anyone. I'm a good person. I have a very sweet heart. You believe me when I tell you this, don't you?(Zaatari Refugee Camp, Jordan)
We're trying to get to Grandma's." (Zaatari Refugee Camp, Jordan)
The refugees have been given very limited resources, but they've found ways to maximize the usefulness of these resources. We established a lighting system to provide security. Before long, we noticed that shopkeepers had been tapping into our electrical lines, and using the electricity to light their shops. We tried to prevent this, because our electricity is limited, but more and more people figured out the trick. More and more wires began appearing. Eventually we succumbed to the inevitable. We found the first group of shopkeepers who had siphoned the electricity. We told them: "OK, we're going to allow this. But you're in charge of regulating it.' -Gavin White, External Relations Officer of UNHCR 

(Zaatari Refugee Camp, Jordan)
This one likes photos too much. If he takes one more photo, I will break his camera. But don't translate that." (Zaatari Refugee Camp, Jordan)
After they beat me, I heard shots. And I walked to the shop next door, and found my neighbor dead on the floor. He was one of the nicest men in the town. Every day he would put out food for the cats. I would tell him: "You must stop feeding the cats, they are overrunning my shop.' But he would never stop feeding them. He would tell me: 'I have to feed them. Or they will die.' (Zaatari Refugee Camp, Jordan)
Back in Syria, I sold antiques and Orientals. I had all sorts of things in my shop: glass vases, old stamps, coins from the Roman and Ottoman empire, valuable laces, antique furniture. But they beat me with rifles and knocked out my teeth. Then they burned my store to the ground. (Zaatari Refugee Camp, Jordan)
Tell me about the day you decided to leave Syria." Our house was next to a checkpoint for the government, so we thought it was safe. There were snipers around, but we thought they knew us. They'd seen us everyday. But one day the electricity got very weak. The television was still working, but the refrigerator and washing machine cut off, so my brother went into the yard to check it. And then we heard a scream. It wasn't exactly a scream, more like an "Ahhhh!' And I ran outside. And there he was." What is your fondest memory of your brother?" When we built a second story for our house, my brother and I spent the whole day working together. We were playing tricks on people. We were putting salt in their tea. We were hiding instead of working. We were laughing the entire day." What were you thinking when you found him in the yard?" 'How can I save him?' How can I save him?' How can I save him? How can I save him? How can I save him?'" What did your mother say?" She didn't say a thing. The whole family was screaming. But she didn't make a sound. (Zaatari Refugee Camp, Jordan)
I encourage you to go inside as many of the tents and makeshift homes as you can. You'll be amazed at the spaces the refugees have managed to create."  (Zaatari Refugee Camp, Jordan)
The Zaatari Refugee Camp is twelve kilometers from the Syrian border, and has become the fourth largest city in Jordan. At its peak last year, over 3,000 Syrians refugees were entering the camp every day. This was a biblical level of population movement. Over 400,000 people have lived in the camp at some point in the last two years.  has responded to their basic needs: sanitation, food, healthcare. But there's a large gap between survival and livelihood. For lack of a better word, boredom has become a big problem. It's too dangerous to return to Syria, and there are very limited ways to be productive inside the camp. But the adaptations have been amazing. This is unlike any other refugee camp in the world. The Syrians are coming from a middle class economy, so they are a very skilled population they aren't subsistence farmers. They've managed to build an economy inside the camp. Most of the tents have been upgraded to houses. The refugees trade with the Jordanians, and bring in supplies from the outside to start their own shops. One man even started a supermarket. It's still a tough situation. But arriving with nothing, the Syrian refugees have managed to carve out their own dignity inside the camp. They aren't just taking what is given to them. They've created choices for themselves. 
-Gavin White, UNHCR Jordan External Relations Officer
Seen in Tafila, Jordan.
My grandmother remembers the Arab world much differently than people view it today. She remembers a place known for its music, innovation, and intellectual abilities. I may be naive, but I want to help work toward unity in the Arab world both between our countries and within our countries so that we can get back to that place again."  (Amman, Jordan)
I had five daughters. And my daughters had five daughters. And every one loves to spend time with Grandma!"  (Amman, Jordan)
Seen at the Dead Sea (Sweimeh, Jordan)
I clean the streets. I used to work as a lifeguard at a fancy hotel on the Dead Sea, but I lost my job. I brought some of the mud from the beach to my cousin because it is good for your skin. My manager said: "Hey! We can sell that! You're stealing!'"  (Amman, Jordan)
We were engaged for six months, but her parents made her marry a richer man. What's the last thing you said to her?" I told her: "I've done all that I can do. I wish you happiness in your life.'" (Petra, Jordan)
What happened to your arm?" I was walking down the stairs and looking at the stars." (Amman, Jordan)
If you speak gently, you'll find good people wherever you go. If you find a bad person, just move on to the next person."  (Petra, Jordan)
There's a broken bottle down there!"  (Amman, Jordan)
She raised us on her own. So when I graduated, I viewed it more as her accomplishment than mine."  (Amman, Jordan)
I want to be a pilot so I can fly everywhere."  (Dhana, Jordan)
I’m living a good life. I’m a business owner. A lot of hotels say, ‘Come shine shoes for us. We will pay you better.’ I tell them: ‘Why would I do that? I am free.’ (Shaqlawa, Iraq)
The fighting got very bad. When I left Syria to come here, I only had $50. I was almost out of money when I got here. I met a man on the street, who took me home, and gave me food and a place to stay. But I felt so ashamed to be in his home, that I spent 11 hours a day looking for jobs, and only came back to sleep. I finally found a job at a hotel. They worked me 12 hours a day, for 7 days a week. They gave me $400 a month. Now I found a new hotel now that is much better. I work 12 hours per day for $600 a month, and I get one day off. In all my free hours, I work at a school as an English teacher. I work 18 hours per day, every day. And I have not spent any of it. I have not bought even a single T-shirt. I've saved 13,000 Euro, which is how much I need to buy fake papers. There is a man I know who can get me to Europe for 13,000. I'm leaving next week. I'm going once more to Syria to say goodbye to my family, then I'm going to leave all this behind. I'm going to try to forget it all. And I'm going to finish my education."  (Erbil, Iraq)
I was going to one of my first exams, and suddenly there was a bombing. In downtown Damascus! I couldn't believe it! I didn't think this was possible. Windows were broken everywhere, and there were people on the ground, and the sounds of ambulances. Then over the next few weeks, everything changed. The taxis in the streets were replaced by tanks. You no longer knew who was your friend and who was your enemy. Suddenly you could be killed, and nobody would ask why. Before war, you have rights. People will ask why you were killed. When war comes, nobody asks why you were killed anymore."  (Erbil, Iraq)
When I got accepted into the Master's program at the University of Damascus, it felt like the whole world was in my hands. For the last three weeks before the exam, I studied for 20 hours every day. My eyes got so tired and swollen that I could not see the letters anymore. So when I heard that I passed, I felt that nothing was impossible. All my friends and family were surrounding me and kissing me." How did you celebrate?" Well, we were poor. So I bought a Pepsi to share with my friends. (Erbil, Iraq)
We just want to be together and not be afraid."  (Erbil, Iraq)
She always dreams about the bombs."  (Erbil, Iraq)
I'm a student. My parents didn't want me sitting around the house all summer, so they made me be a shepherd."  (Kalak, Iraq)
What do you guys want to do when you grow up?Doctor. Doctor.What’s your greatest struggle right now?Math.Math.(Erbil, Iraq)
I had a mobile phone and computer store back in Syria. It was completely looted during the fighting. I came here to find work, but I couldn’t afford to bring my family with me. When I left, I kissed my son and told him that I was leaving and I didn’t know where I was going. He was crying so hard that we had to lock him in the house as I said ‘goodbye’ to my wife. I haven’t even met my second son.What are your happiest memories of your son?Every time I went to work, he’d run after me. And every time I came home, he’d run to me. (Erbil, Iraq)
We live in a very conservative culture, but I want my children to be open minded. I try to bring them to as many places as possible: big malls, art galleries, concerts. We want them to see as many types of people as possible, and as many types of ideas as possible. (Erbil, Iraq)
My parents were captured when I was sixteen. They both died in prison.What do you remember about the day they were taken?I’m sorry. I don’t think I can do this. Can we stop? (Shaqlawa, Iraq)
I was the strongest young man in my town. They called me Bulldozer. (Shaqlawa, Iraq)
Swimming is the greatest thing in life. If we have time, we swim ten times per day."  (Kalak, Iraq)
Today in microfashion…. (Shaqlawa, Iraq)
I worry about the day they start to want things that I can’t afford. (Shaqlawa, Iraq)
We told her to sit with us so we could share her sadness."  (Dohuk, Iraq)
I normally go into my conversations with a set of proven questions to ask, that I find will elicit a wide variety of anecdotes from people's lives: happiest moment, saddest moment, things like that. But with people fleeing war, it is absolutely impossible to discuss anything beyond the present moment. Their circumstances are so overpowering, there is absolutely zero room in their minds for any other thoughts. The conversation immediately stalls, because any topic of conversation beyond their present despair seems grossly inappropriate. You realize that without physical security, no other layers of the human experience can exist. All day they do is cry for home,"  she told me. (Dohuk, Iraq)
I would give my soul if I could fix her brain."  (Dohuk, Iraq)
There were dozens of them and only four of us. They took all my sheep."  (Dohuk, Iraq)
These children are members of Iraq's Yazidi minority, who are one of many minorities deemed expendable by ISIS militants. In the last few days, ISIS has moved into their villages and taken their homes. Tens of thousands of the villagers fled into a nearby range of mountains. Realizing this, ISIS circled the mountains with guns, blocked all the roads, and waited for them to die of thirst in the 120 degree heat. These children belonged to some of the families lucky enough to escape. While their parents were panicking about their relatives trapped in the mountains, these kids found a quiet place to play. I found them banging on some cans. I asked them what they were doing. We're building a car,"  they said. Isn't that cute,"  I thought. They're imagining the cans are cars." When I came back 5 minutes later, they had punctured holes in all four cans. Using two metal wires as axles, they turned the cans into wheels, and attached them to the plastic crate lying nearby. They'd built a car. (Dohuk, Iraq)
They are taking control of the water supply. They are breaking dams, and flooding crops, and destroying the food supply of an entire country. They are forcing hundreds of thousands from their homes. It seems that there is a hand behind all of this. They are very calculating. They are making their moves very carefully to destroy the human soul. They want to rob an entire people of food and water and homes, as if to wipe them from the pages of history. And when they take the homes from these people, the children have no place to play. The children have no place to be young. No physical space, and no emotional space. They have no place to be a child, so their only frame of reference is war and fighting. And when that’s all they know, how can they grow up to be doctors and teachers? All they can possibly know is the desire for revenge and hatred for their enemies. I wish people would understand that Iraq is filled with intelligent, civilized people. This was the cradle of civilization in the Ancient World. Even the Garden of Eden was here. These aren’t dust covered, nameless refugees being forced from their homes. The refugee camps are filled with architects, and musicians, and teachers.
I photoshopped my head onto a healthy body, to see what I would look like. (Erbil, Iraq)
My happiest moments are whenever I see my mother happy.What’s the happiest you’ve ever seen her?When I was a child, some German doctors told us that I could have a surgery in Italy, and my legs would work again. She was so happy she started crying. But I never had the money to go. (Erbil, Iraq)
She speaks more languages than anyone in the family. Because she plays with all the children in the street. (Erbil, Iraq)
Beginning tomorrow, I'll be taking a 50 day trip in partnership with the United Nations, supported by the Secretary General's MDG Advocacy Group. I'll be posting portraits and stories from the trip on the blog. We're calling it a "World Tour,' because the trip will span over 25,000 miles and circumnavigate the globe. But since there are only ten countries on the itinerary, it would be rather foolish to claim that these portraits and stories somehow represent 'the world,' or humanity as a whole. The point of the trip is not to say"  anything about the world. But rather to visit some faraway places, and listen to as many people as possible. 
In addition to gathering portraits and stories, the purpose of the tour is to raise awareness for the Millennium Development Goals, which are pictured. The MDG's are eight international development goals that every member state of the UN agreed we should accomplish by the year 2015. Basically: they're stuff that everyone can agree the world needs. (More info can be found here: ). So in addition to telling stories of individuals, we hope this trip may in some way help to inspire a global perspective, while bringing awareness to the challenges that we all need to tackle together. Hope you enjoy.
This one is the anxious Mama’s girl, this one is the independent hippie, and this one is the boss.
Up until I was a teenager, I’d been one of his favorites. We were always playing sports together. But soon after I came to America, we stopped talking. I think there was something missing on both sides. I don’t think I felt loved enough by him. I don’t think he felt that I was grateful enough for all that he’d done for me. A few years ago, I started trying to get in touch. But he’d never return my calls. So one day I just went back to France and knocked on his door. I hadn’t spoken to him in fourteen years. The only reason I knew he still lived there was that his name was on the mailbox. He didn’t even recognize me when he opened the door. He thought I was selling something. He said: ‘Can I help you with something?’ I said: ‘Dad, it’s me. Jimmy.’What were his reasons for not talking to you for fourteen years?I don’t know.Do you think he was hurt by you?I don’t know. But next time I talk to him, I’m going to say: ‘Some guy in Central Park asked me some questions. And I’m wondering if you could answer them.’


I lived in Paris until I was thirteen. Around that age, I began to fight with my father and stepmom. I’d always tell them that I wished I could move to America to live with my grandmother. One day, my stepmother told me: ‘You always say you want to go live with your grandmother. Well, you’re going to live with her. We bought you a ticket.’ The day I came to America was the most frightening moment of my life. When I landed at the airport, I couldn’t speak any English. I didn’t know how to find my grandmother, and I didn’t know how to get home.
I’d like to leave some sort of mark in my field.What’s your field?I’m the data manager in the museum bird department. I started in the fish department, then moved to reptiles and amphibians, then just sort of fell into birds.What sort of mark do you hope to leave in the bird data world?Well, in a perfect world, we’d conserve all the lands that needed to be conserved. But as things are, you have to be able to make a really strong argument about what areas are crucial to certain species. I can help the people making those arguments by organizing bird data from the museum’s collection and making it easily accessible to researchers.
There has been a lot of evil in the world. But to me, none as great as slavery. It’s the worst thing that has ever happened. They take you from your home. They take you from your family, your history. They make you work. They tell you when to mate. They chop off your foot if you try to run away. And I’m sorry to say this, but white people did that. And black people are still living with the remnants. For over 200 years, black people built this country and didn’t get a single dollar. And sure, it isn’t happening anymore, but we’re still living with the remnants. We don’t have the same connections, the same powerful friends, the same access to capital. I tell young African Americans that they’ll do just fine, but they’re going to have to work twice as hard. I tell them that they will need to go out of their way to search for their identity. They aren’t going to find much about their heritage in the history books. Even the constitution classifies black people as three-fifths of a man, and that was supposedly written by the most enlightened, glorified white people of that time. I tell young African Americans that they are going to have to dig hard to find out the giant contributions that Africa made to civilization, because they aren’t going to find it on the television. And I tell them that just because it’s a tough road does not excuse them from personal responsibility. I tell them that God put them on earth to build and not destroy. And I tell them that some opportunities cost money, but books are absolutely free.
Life is a miracle. It’s not a mystery to me. It’s simple. Humans can shape their environment, but they can’t create anything. All we can do is put together what is here. But I challenge any man to try to make some life. Actually, forget life. I challenge any man to try to conjure up some dirt.
Those are my parents. They’ve been married 55 years. They met when my dad was visiting Mexico as a young man. He saw my mom at a party, but he couldn’t speak a word of Spanish, so they just sort of looked at each other and giggled. Everything was very formal back then, so he asked a mutual friend to obtain permission for him to contact her. My mom gave my dad her address, and when he went back to America, he would write her a letter every few days. He’d write the entire letter in English, and then get a Spanish dictionary and translate it word by word. My mom says the letters barely made sense. But after he’d written many letters, he went back to Mexico and they went on their first date. There were adult chaperones and everything, they didn’t even kiss or touch. It was all very formal. And after a few dates, they decided to marry. Her family thought she was crazy to marry this weird American who kept writing the letters. But she said she knew he was the one. Get this just two years ago, we were all visiting Italy. And I busted the two of them making out in a corner. I snapped a photo. Dad’s got Mom pinned up against a wall and he’s macking her hard.
I was driving out into the Mexican desert with a shaman, and we were on our way to a peyote ceremony. We’d just eaten the peyote, and the shaman turned on the radio, and started playing The Talking Heads. He was this little indigenous dude, just banging on the steering wheel and singing along to The Talking Heads at the top of his lungs. I thought we were supposed to be contemplating life, so I said: ‘Are you sure the radio should be on right now? Is that how the ceremony is supposed to work?’ And he said: ‘This is exactly how it’s supposed to work.’ So I just shut up and rolled with it.
I’m one of the best tube amplifier technicians in the country.
I went to the beach because I thought it’d be a good place to die. I felt mad hopeless. I didn’t eat or drink for three days. Every time I fell back asleep, I hoped that I wouldn’t wake up. I thought I’d die after two or three days. But after three days, it was like: ‘Fuck, I’m not dead.’ So I walked into a hospital and said I needed help.
She ran the 800 meter dash on Field Day and finished the whole race even though it was really hot.
My mom committed suicide when I was ten. I’ll never forget the day we went to foster care. It was the last day of third grade. I was riding home on the bus with my brother, and I was so excited about meeting my friend later at the YMCA. But when we got home, all of our stuff was packed into boxes. My dad was sitting on the stairwell, crying. He wouldn’t tell us what was going on. He just told us that we had to leave. For the first couple years of foster care, he’d tell us every week that he was about to come get us. After awhile we stopped believing him.
I’m always fearful because I don’t have a safety net. I feel like I’m walking on a tightrope with nothing to catch me if I fall. I’ve moved 80 times in my life. I don’t have any savings. I don’t have any room to make a mistake. In college, I was always around so many people who could afford to make mistakes, and I couldn’t help but feel very envious of them.When did you feel most envious?Family day.
As soon as I finish the program, they’re going to give me my kids back. I need to get back to them. I’m all they’ve got.
They’re day and night. This one’s emotional, and this one isn’t at all. We were actually reading a story before we left the house, and it was about a dog that got lost. This one started getting emotional about the lost dog. And this one said: ‘What’s wrong with you? It’s just a dog.’
I took my daughter to Disney World over the 4th of July. And seeing her face as those fireworks went off gave me goosebumps. She looked so amazed. It just really made me feel like I’d accomplished something.
I’m an artist just like my mom.What kind of art do you make?Ninja Turtles and helicopters.
I haven’t liked to sleep indoors ever since I got out of prison. I’ve visited almost every state—only five more to go. And once I finish, I’m going to start over, so she can see them all too.
How’d you meet?We were both looking at the same sculpture.
I wanted to be a defense lawyer because I wanted to come back and protect my community. I wanted to protect my people from the police. People around here grow up hating the police. But you know what they’ve done? The police have recruited our people. They’ve made it more complicated. They’ve got Dominicans and Puerto Ricans doing their work for them. Because they know it’s hard to hate your people. But as soon as that badge goes on, it changes you. Once that badge goes on, your people are the ‘boys in blue.’
It’s not even about making money for me, it’s about gaining respect. Seems that for kids around here, all the respect goes to the drug dealers, because they’re the ones with money. But you know what saved me? Family. Instead of hanging out with friends after school, I’d take the bus from the Bronx to work with my dad in the recycling yard. He’d drive me around in his truck while he was doing pick-ups, and he’d tell me stories. And every one of his stories started the same way. He’d say: ‘I wish that when I was your age, I knew the things that I know now.’ And he’d also ask me questions. He’d say: ‘When you get a car, are you going to lease it or buy it?’ He’d say: ‘What stocks do you think we should buy with the money we make today?’ He’d say: ‘Where do you think is the best place to buy a piece of property?’
It’s been tough in law school. Cause you know, I grew up around here, and I’ve still got some of that ghettoness in me. I talk a little different. I came up with this sort of nonchalant attitude, and now I’m competing with a bunch of private school kids that are ruthless. I’m supposed to read sixty pages a night, and I’m realizing that I don’t read as well as I thought I did. I realized that public school kids are just behind. I did horrible the first year. I almost folded. But I pulled it back together. I took a tough internship that summer and came back strong. Cause it’s destined to happen.
I didn’t get married until I was 55. But boy was it worth the wait. He looked just like Peter O’Toole!
I was extremely shy when I was younger. I wasn’t asked to the prom or anything. Life didn’t really even start for me until I turned fifty. But let’s just say I got plenty of experience after that!
I was a young, lily-white liberal who majored in social work. I imagined myself as a Dorothea Dix type figure, who was going to save the world. Then I graduated and learned about bureaucracy. So I lowered my goals, and just tried to help a couple of people every day.
Do you have any advice for other fishermen?" You have to sneak up on them and catch them real fast. And you have to wear boots. I once caught a monster fish that went all the way up to the sky like a giant. I like giants. But not mean giants. I like nice giants."


I think my grandfather may have the correct approach to art. He’s had a long career, and in his retirement he’s been working on building a boat. I doubt he’ll ever finish it, but I don’t think that’s particularly important to him. He wakes up every morning, drinks his cup of coffee, then goes out to his workshop to sand a tiny portion of wood. He doesn’t need to finish that boat to pay the rent. He can afford to have some distance from it, so he gets to enjoy it. He looks at that boat tenderly, like he looks at his grandkids. He gets to have a dream without the necessity of achieving it.
It seems that the more I tried to make my life about the pursuit of art, the more money controlled my life: collecting unemployment insurance, the humiliation of borrowing money from friends and family, tossing and turning at night while trying to figure out how to pay the rent. To survive I had to work hard jobs and afterwards I’d feel too tired and too stressed to paint. It’s very hard to create under those circumstances. Creativity is a delicate process. Often times I wonder if I should have just pursued a career for the first half of my life, obtained some degree of financial security, and then transitioned into art.
So Little Humans is coming out in almost two months, and the first hardcopy has just arrived! It is awesome. Your child is guaranteed to giggle, point, and cheer. And if test readings are any indication, there is a 38.53% chance you will cry. It comes out October 7th very excited about it. You can preorder now and receive it on day of publish:
AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND:
Brandon,"  they say to me, Since you are promoting the children's book, can you remind everyone about the adult book?"  Of course I will. Aesthetically arranged beneath Little Humans, you can see the adult book, appropriately titled Humans of New York, which after nine months is still hanging onto the NYT Bestseller's list. Most likely because it's a publishing phenomenon"  (New York Times) that also happens to be visually arresting and disarmingly deep."  (The Atlantic). If you so desire, you can order that here:
AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND:
To the right of Little Humans, you can find Susie, who has asked me, while we are promoting things, to remind everyone that she is on a lifelong mission to help place orphaned senior dogs in loving homes. You can find her page here: .
And finally, my cactus, Carl, has asked me, since we're already promoting things, if I could advertise his fan page: . He is hoping to get a certain number of likes before he launches his GoFundMe campaign.
She gets me out of the house.
Four years until retirement, then I’m going to teach railroad engineering at community college. I’ve already got my lesson plans mapped out.
Of course the time I leave my camera at home, I run into this guy. Had to snap a pic with my phone anyway. He was making farm animal noises at passing pedestrians. Got to make the best of it,"  he said.
She said ‘I love you and I want to spend my life with you.’ Then ten days later, we sat in a diner, and she said ‘I don’t want to be with you anymore.What was your happiest moment with her?The happiest times were just little moments of exuberance. Like when she jumped on my back because something swam up against her in the ocean. Or when we danced in the kitchen when the pizza arrived
What's been your greatest accomplishment?" Keeping in touch with distant friends and relatives." Why is that important?" It's important to always have people who remember you at various stages of your life. It's especially important as you get older, because there are less of those people around. And they remind you who you are."
Some aches and pains, but I’m enjoying being eighty. It’s not nearly as bad as I thought it was going to be. I underestimated the pleasures of an unstructured life.
You’re not going to believe this. Some guy is taking my picture right now, says he’s gonna put it on some website. I swear to God. I swear to God!
When I began setting up the shot, it was just the boy on the tricycle. By the time I was ready to take the picture, it was this:
You stopped a live one today, honey. I'm an international cougar!"
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Change your mind about something significant every day."
We fled to the Philippines, which was under American occupation at the time. But it wasn’t long before the Japanese took over the islands. We were living in Manila, and when the Japanese occupied the city, they began to teach us to read and write Japanese. When the Americans came to retake the city, they invaded from the north, and the Japanese blew up the bridges and barricaded themselves in the southern part of the city where we lived. Shells were falling all around us, because the Japanese had stationed a gun encampment across from our house. One morning, we decided to make a run for the hospital, so that we could put ourselves under the protection of the Red Cross. Our neighbors were running in front of us, pushing their belongings on a pushcart, when they stepped on a land mine and the whole family was killed. We kept running, but when we got to the main street, there was a checkpoint and we weren’t allowed to cross. So we hid beneath a house, and soon we were discovered by Japanese soldiers. They lined us all up against the wall to be executed. We begged and begged and begged for our lives. They finally allowed my mother and the children to step aside, but they told my father to stay. My mother dropped to her knees and asked the Japanese commander to imagine it was his family. And he finally let all of us go.
We fled Germany on November 9th, 1938. It was called the Crystal Night, because there were demonstrations against Jews all over Germany, and many windows were being broken. We were living on the outskirts of Hanover. When my father came home from work that night, he told us that the synagogue was on fire, and that firemen were standing in a ring around it to prevent the flames from spreading to other buildings. He said: ‘We’re getting out of here.’
She wanted to wear her Hello Kitty dress. So we compromised."
Seen in Jamaica, Queens.
Seen in Jamaica, Queens.
Today in microfashion
Seen in Jamaica, Queens.
Seen in Jamaica, Queens.
We were laying in bed just the other night, looking at the ceiling, and I said: ‘You know, it’s been thirty years, and it’s never felt worn. There’s never been a sense of tiredness with you.’
Daddy Proof
In the 70’s, I used to work out at this Gold’s Gym in California, and one day this wrestling promoter comes in and says: ‘I need a black guy, a Chinese guy, and an Indian he said Indian, but he meant Native American.’ I happened to be working out with a black friend and a Chinese friend, so I said: ‘We can do it! I can be an Indian!’ So he agreed, and he moved us into this empty warehouse to live. Then he gave us $600 per week to do a bunch of coke and beat the shit out of each other before Roller Girls events.
I’ve done a lot of whacked out shit for money.
I didn't really know what I wanted to do, so I went to an expensive college. I realized afterwards that it would have been better to go to a cheaper college with a goal in mind."
I knew you'd stop me one day."
I moved here from Jamaica when I was six, and my accent was so bad that I had to spend two years in ESL classes before anyone could understand me. I remember feeling very frustrated. I was surrounded by people with really thick accents who were trying to tell me that I needed to get rid of my accent.
No more excitement for me. No more parties. No more boyfriends. No more husbands. I just want some peace. I want to sit on the beach with a martini. No, not a martini a glass of wine. Because wine is what they drink in Spain, and I want to be in Spain. I want a house on the beach in Spain where my kids can visit during the summer. Well, not the whole summer. I want a house on the beach in Spain where my kids can visit for two weeks every summer.
Do you remember the happiest moment you ever spent together?The day we had lunch on top of the World Trade Center, and I got to tell her that I’d finally met someone.
I don’t always wear blue. Sometimes I wear turquoise.
I've done nothing horrible. And nothing heroic."
I had cancer when I was sixteen. But honestly, it was so long ago that it’s almost like it happened to a different person. It doesn’t color my interactions or anything. But I’m a dancer, and I do think it’s affected my dancing. There’s this interesting tension between training and striving to control every movement of your body, and realizing that at any moment, your body can rebel against itself in a way that’s completely out of your control.
I'm stuck in an institutional trap."
You're taking my picture!"
She was 2 lbs 11 ounces when she was born. We named her after Amelia Earhart, in case she needed to fly away."
I told the truth on my job application about my past drug use, and they sent me a letter saying I didn't meet their standards of integrity."
We got engaged an hour ago. We were on a rooftop, and I told her I wanted to take a time lapse photo of her looking off the roof, then when she turned back around, boom." Were you nervous?" I was more nervous when I had lunch with her parents to ask for permission. I couldn't bring myself to ask, and actually had to call them back to the table after they'd gotten up to leave."
If her sister climbs, she climbs. If her sister makes a face, she makes a face. If her sister says something, she says the exact same thing.
Double Team
I asked him for his photo. He stared at me for a few seconds, then felt my forehead with the back of his hand, then stared at me for a few more seconds, then said: What the fuck is wrong with you?"
She was filled with regret before she died. She felt like she'd failed us as a mother tremendously." Did she say something to you about it?" She never said anything, so I don't have any tangible proof that she had regrets. But she had a very bad substance abuse problem. And I know she always wanted to be a good mother. So I separate my mom from her disease. I always imagine that my mom and an alcoholic were living in the same body. And I know that my mom loved us. And that she hated the alcoholic."
My younger brother killed himself when he was sixteen. He found my Dad’s old gun in the ceiling panels of the office. The strange thing is, when he came home from school that day, my grandmother was cooking in the kitchen, and he asked her to make him a plate. Then before she could finish, he was dead. So we wonder, maybe he was just playing with the gun and it accidentally went off. There wasn’t a note or anything. My biggest regret is that he’d recently asked me for money to sign up for Tae Kwon Do lessons. And I always gave him money when he asked. But this time I didn’t, because I was newly married and we were pinching pennies. I always wonder if he’d have learned something in those lessons that would have changed his view of life.
I know you were hoping for a senile man playing with his toys, but I'm putting together a donation for Housing Works."
She’s really encouraged me to find my own style. I didn’t even like patterns before I met her!
She never actually told me why she was sick, but people talk. Some of the older kids were like: ‘Yo, your mom has AIDS.’
Normally when I photograph a couple, I ask for you to tell me your favorite thing about him, and for you to tell me your favorite thing about her.Fuck.
If you could give a piece of advice to yourself at the age of eighteen, what would it be?Have more sex.
People waste way too much energy taking things personally. That Facebook post is probably not about you. It was probably an accident that you weren’t tagged in that picture. And the person you’re dating is probably acting sad because that’s how they respond to setbacks at work, not because of anything you did.
The economy's tough. They say that to stay relevant in the job market, you’re supposed to reinvent yourself every five years. What the hell is that supposed to mean? I haven’t invented myself once!
I hate conflict so much that I find myself agreeing with pretty much everything that everyone says.
We were at a bar watching some Baltimore Orioles game. I remember that Cal Ripken was about to break some kind of record. My husband kept getting drunker and drunker, and he was trying to get me drunk too, so I knew something was going on. Then finally he said: ‘I fell in love with another woman.’ So I punched him in the stomach and told him to go to bed.
We depend on each other more than we used to.
My younger sister died when I was seven. I remember my mom asking if I’d seen her, and we searched the whole house, and discovered her beneath some hurricane shutters. We think that she climbed up on them to play, and they fell down on her. My strongest memory from that day is these two young girls, holding open our front door when the paramedics arrived. I can see them clearly in my memory, but I don’t know who they are. I may have just invented them, but I like to think that they were angels.
We were a two career family. I was a nuclear engineer. I designed shields for the fuel reactors on the first nuclear submarines. He was a carpenter.
You can make about 75% more money with a cat on your head than you can with a cat on your shoulder."
My grandmother always told me: ‘It doesn’t matter if you’re crippled, blind, or crazy. All this world cares about is how you survive. As long as you don’t do drugs or go to jail, you’re gonna be fine.’What do you mean by: ‘The world only cares about how you survive?’The only thing people care about is if you’re working, and if you’re paying your taxes. I worked for the city for six years. During the time that I was working, I was Mr. Matthew Phillips. The moment that I wasn’t able to work anymore, I became a social security number.’
Being disabled in America is like living in a third world country."
What's your largest remaining goal in life?" I'm just a tourist in this world. I'm not trying to affect anything."
Dating Game
One of the magical things about theater is that it gathers a crowd of people in a quiet space, and each member of the audience gets to see how people respond differently to the different things being said on stage. The person next to you will laugh at something that you'd never think of laughing at, and you'll get a glimpse into all the different ways of viewing the world. Unfortunately, so much theater today is less nuanced. It gives you a large dose of one way of thinking, in hopes of getting as many of the same type of people into the theater as possible."
I'm writing a play about the nature of truth, and how difficult it is to convey the truth when everybody is speaking a different language. For example, the word "terrorist' and the word 'freedom fighter' are used to refer to the exact same people at the exact same time. With everyone speaking differently, truth is almost impossible to agree upon. Yet believing in the existence of truth is the only thing that keeps us from devolving into tribal warfare. Because without the existence of truth, the person who is most powerful becomes the person who is right."
My baseball coach told everyone to name their favorite players and I said Derek Jeter because he's the only one I know."
Most of the time it's hard to be lonely all the time."
What's been your greatest failure?" I recently did a dance piece on that, actually. It featured 200 point shoes, puppetry, and a 13-foot tall tutu."
Her parents know about me. They just don't know about us."
I grew up in a small village in Liberia. Everyone was like family. I left when I was 19 to study in France. While I was gone, the civil war came, and everyone in the village fled. Suddenly I had nowhere to go home to."
I'm still struggling with her death. She was my best friend and biggest fan." What's your happiest memory of her?" When I graduated from high school, I had to either sing a song or recite a poem. I sang a song that she'd taught me, and she was in the front row, clapping louder than everyone." Do you remember the song?" "I never can forget the day,I heard my mother kindly say,You’re leaving now my tender care;Remember, child, your mother’s prayer.'"
My brother was killed when I was 13. There had been a fight at a nightclub, and my brother was not involved, but he was shot in the head as he tried to run away. He was very popular in my town, so there were many reporters and friends outside the hospital when I got there. When I walked in my mother was sitting in a chair, crying. She wouldn't even look at me. She wouldn't speak to me. Not only did I lose my brother that day, but I lost my mother too. Life from then on was about her suffering. She stayed home all day, she cried, she didn't pay much attention to us. Nothing was allowed to be more important than her suffering. Nobody else was allowed to have important problems. Her pain had to be worse than everyone else's. She preferred it that way."
I didn't know a thing about contemporary art before I met her."
We've been best friends for 26 years! She used to be my hairdresser. We know everything about each other. We spend the day together, then she goes home to her husband. And I go home to my little dog Stormy."
Right after I lost vision in my eye, I was so bad at walking that I ran into a girl eating ice cream, and knocked her cone out of her hand. She screamed: "Are you blind!?!?' I turned to her and said: 'I am blind actually, I'm so sorry, I'll buy you a new cone.' And she said: 'Oh my God! I'm so sorry! Don't worry! It's no problem at all! I'll buy another one.' So we walked into the ice cream store together, and the clerk said: 'I heard the whole thing. Ice cream is free.'"


I went to work with a fever one day, and I was trying to pull out a screw when the crowbar dislodged and hit me across the face. Two days later, I started to see a pink spray behind my right eye. They tried many surgeries, but over two months, my vision slowly faded to nothing until I was completely blind in the eye. My balance was ruined. I felt dizzy. I could barely walk. I spent $16,000 on surgeries, and then the hospital sued me for $40,000, even though they failed to save my eye. I was so sad and angry at myself, that I did nothing for a year and a half. I lost my house, my car, everything. Then one day, my friend said to me that he had an important job for me to do. And it was a very small job, but he gave me $1,000. He knew I wouldn't take charity, so this was his way of giving me charity overpaying me for a job. That was the way he was Atilla Tetik is his name, from Long Island. And even though the $1,000 was a big help, seeing that I could finish a job made me feel powerful. And I immediately started working again."
When I have to work, the weather's great. Day off? Weather sucks."
The woman in the blue coat approached me by the United Nations building yesterday, and said: "There is an interesting man around the corner that you should photograph. I don't know his name, but everyday he stands directly across from the UN, and says 'God Bless You' to everyone who walks past. I've always sort of viewed him as the conscience of the world.''Let's go together,' I said, and she agreed to bring me to where he was standing. When we finally found the man, I asked for his photo, and he cheerfully agreed. But he pointed at a nearby wall:Let's take the photo under that scripture,"  he said.
I'm doing this internship to make my parents happy. But as soon as I graduate, I'm heading to Bollywood!"
I'm a traffic cop. It's a job. Somebody's got to do it. I don't even represent myself when I'm working. If I was representing myself, I'd let everyone off with a warning. I represent a system. Did I design the system? No. I just enforce it. It's not for me to decide the system. We elect the people who decide the system. When I write a ticket, everyone tells me a reason that they don't deserve it. If I gave a warning to everyone with a reason, I wouldn't give any tickets, and the system wouldn't work. I don't get any joy by giving a ticket. And I'm not upset if you beat it in court. It's not personal. It's my job."
Are you lonely?" It's been a lifetime of loneliness. I decided early on that I better get used to it. I go to movies by myself. If the movie theater is completely empty, I'm even happier. I learned early on that if I wanted to go to restaurants, I better learn to go by myself. One benefit to being big is that people don't bother you. I'm shocked that you came up to me. Nobody's ever done that. When I started to go to therapy, it took me several sessions before I even spoke a word. I'd just sit there and cry. And honestly, you caught me on a tough day. I was sitting here feeling really bad about myself. Because I went to the doctor today, and I was sure that I'd lost weight. But I'd gained some."
I've struggled with my weight my whole life. When I was twenty-one, I decided I wanted to be skinny. I thought it was going to bring me love, happiness, everything I wanted. I barely ate. I exercised three times a day. I got down to 130 pounds and I was more miserable than ever. I hated myself. And after that I gave up on trying to be thin. Now I've gotten to the point where I have to lose weight again but this time for my health."
In my heart of hearts, I wanted to do the right thing, but selling drugs was easy. Everyone was doing it. I mean, I'm not using that as an excuse, I made my own decisions. But I grew up around these Robin Hood figures who would sell drugs, then buy supplies for kids who were going back to school, or pay rent for an old woman who was about to get evicted. All my friends were doing it. It almost seemed fashionable. I never felt proud of it. I always thought I'd transition to a job with the Transit Authority, or a job like this something I'd feel good about, but instead I transitioned to jail. I did six years. When I got out, it was tempting to go back to the easy money, because everyone around me was still doing it, and I couldn't get a job. But luckily I found an agency that helps ex-cons, because there aren't many companies looking to give people a second chance. I've had this job for a few years now. You know what product I'm selling now? Myself. Everyone around here is my client. Times Square is a drug to these people. And I'm picking up all the trash so that they can have the full Times Square experience."
I'm a court reporter. He's a judge. Office romance."
I just want to stop working."
My husband was an editor at the New York Times, so he'd work really late nights, and I'd sometimes get lonely. So I started letting this tomcat into our house everyday. But my husband was horribly allergic to cats, so right before he'd get home, I'd let the cat back out again. But one night it was raining so hard that I refused to let the cat out, and my husband stayed up all night sneezing. And that's how I got a puppy!"
What's your greatest struggle right now?" The death of my husband." How'd you meet?" I was at a party on Fire Island, and this man walked in. I was about 25 at the time and recently divorced. I thought: "He looks interesting, I should get to know him.' We ended up talking all night long. The next morning we were engaged, and two weeks later we were married." So what did he say when he asked you to marry him?" He didn't really ask. He just said: 'Let's get married.'"
We're the Eco Adventure Club! Everyday we go on an adventure to learn about plants and animals in the city. Today is our eleventh adventure. We've been to Prospect Park, the Botanical Gardens, and today we're learning to use maps on the High Line. We're even growing our own garden. Everybody say Raaassstttaaaffaaarriii!"
Today in microfashion
He wants to go home."
I want to make electronic music and perform in Japan. But it's tough to stay motivated. At some point you forget your original intention, but you still have to keep doing it every day." What do you mean by "original intention?'" When you start something, your motivation comes from a really strong feeling of inspiration. As you go on, it gets harder and harder to remember that feeling."
My friend came up to me and said: "Alfredo! There's some guy over there jerking off in front of women and kids.' So I ran up to this guy, and I said: 'What the hell do you think you're doing? Put your shit back in your pants and get the fuck out of the park!' And he stood up, and he got in my face, and he started to say: 'Fuck you!' But after he said 'fuck,' and before he said 'you,' I clocked him right in the face and knocked him out. When the cops came, I told them the story, and they said: 'You better get out of here before the boss gets here.' So I left the park, but this guy's tooth was lodged in my hand. And he had some sort of infection. Cause two days later, my legs swell up like balloons, and I've barely been able to walk since."
That's the Grandmaster in the back. He doesn't speak much English. He was number one in China back in 1980, so I knew of his name long before I met him. He's very humble. A true gentleman fighter. He's 68, but I've seen him put a spear against his neck, and use it to push a car." So at what point can you call yourself a Grandmaster?" A Grandmaster doesn't say he's a Grandmaster. Other people say it for him."
Seen in Chinatown
We've been friends for 43 years. Every few years, we meet for a few hours, and pick right back up."
After a job, there should be a moment of reflection, but it's easy to go beyond that moment and start living in the past. There are a lot of actors out there who haven't worked in a year, but still talk about their last job as if it was yesterday."
He had his first birthday yesterday, so he goes crazy every time he hears the "Happy Birthday' song." Let's see it."
I'm trying to get financing for my crime movie, so all my pigs are in one blanket right now. I don't even know what that means. I think I just made it up. I've got to write that down."
They sent me to the psych ward 20 times. They said I had bipolar, schizophrenia, dyslexia, mad stupid shit. The only one that made sense was schizophrenia, because my mom has schizophrenia. I didn't have any of that though. I was just angry. What I was angry about, anyone would be angry about."
It's a good job."
What's been your greatest accomplishment?" That time I had a job and a place to stay."
Today I'm supposed to meet the manager at my new job, get a physical, and study for the SATs. But I think I'm just going to head to the skate park."
My son worked on the 91st floor of the North Tower. The whole family came over to my apartment and gathered around the TV. When we saw the building come down, we all looked at each other, and said: "That's it.'"

He seemed a bit intimidated when I approached him, and nodded meekly when I asked for his photo. Then he stepped back, paused for a second, and did this. He held the pose for about ten seconds, snapped back to normal, then continued on his way.
We were twenty-five and twenty-eight, but we acted like fifteen year olds. Fighting over little things, storming off, breaking up for a week and then getting back together. But developmentally, we were fifteen year olds. We'd been in the closet our whole lives, so we didn't have any practice with relationships. He still hadn't come out to his family and a lot of his friends. We were on one of our "little breaks' when he died suddenly from a seizure. And nobody in his family or circle knew I existed. It took me four months to find out that he died. I thought he'd just decided never to talk to me again. His family never found out about me. Or him, for that matter."
I'm reading a classic piece of fantasy literature about a mercenary company in a sorcery world. I'm actually the treasurer of the Gay Geeks of New York club. Hey! Could you promote our trivia night? It's tonight at Rock Bar at 7 PM. There's all kinds of geek trivia: fantasy, gaming, anime, animation, sci-fi, stuff like that. Wait until I tell our PR Director about this. I'm gonna rub his nose in it. It's gonna be awesome."
What was the happiest moment of your life?" When I turned 30." Why's that? I just felt like I'd made it through the crap."
She got pregnant with another man, then asked me to be the godfather."
I found him in the trash. I named him Shadow because he followed me everywhere."
I'm 33 and I still work as a bartender. To make it worse, my brother is a world renowned chemist. So when my father talks to people at weddings, he says: "My son just got a million dollar grant. And my daughter lives in New York.' The thing is, I used to be such an overachiever. I skipped the last two years of high school. I got a full ride to college, but ended up dropping out. I don't know what happened. I keep telling myself I'm saving up to go back to school, but I don't have any savings. I don't know, I just feel very lame all the time. Don't make me sound too lame."
Every time I get a job, they're like: "Do this now.' And I'm like: 'I don't want to.' And they're like: 'You have to. It's your job.'And I'm like: 'Oh yeah. Shit.'"
What's your best quality?" My body."
Even if we work hard to be a teacher, or a lawyer, or a doctor, we are seen first as outsiders."
My family made me come. But I hate it. I can't get a job because I have a lot of accent. I was an assistant manager at a big jewelry store in the Dominican Republic, now I clean tables. We had a big house there. Now we live in a small apartment. If I was home right now, I'd be in a very nice restaurant, on the beach, laughing with my friends. Not sitting alone on a bench, trying to learn English. There I was a princess. Here I am an immigrant. A servant."
We're getting divorced because we love each other, and we both realize that we don't have enough of what the other needs. When we decided to get divorced, I wrote a note with all the things I loved about her, and gave it to her. She got very emotional and started crying. Then three days later, she wrote me a similar note. But here's the thing she wrote it on the back of a recycled piece of paper. She wrote it on the back of an advertisement or something. So I called her out on it. And she said: "I knew you were going to bring that up. If you cared, you wouldn't mind what it was written on.' And I said: 'Well, if you cared, you'd have gotten a fresh piece of paper.'"
I'm just trying to live through this problem man created. Nature didn't create the problem. Man created the problem. And I'm going to be honest, I'm going to say it, it was the European man who created this problem. European man invented the gun. Then he made a bigger gun, and he said: "I'm gonna keep this big gun for myself, and I'm gonna sell this small gun to you."  And ever since then, he's been keeping the big guns, and selling the small guns. So everybody's got guns but none as big as him. And I'm through with it. I'm blind in one eye from Vietnam. If you want to die for this garbage game, that's your fault. I'm through.
It takes much more than being physically present. Your family needs your attention. I realized this very young. One day I asked my wife why the children weren't listening to me, and she said: "Because you never listen to them.'"
I worked at an all-female radio station in Nepal. I was the first woman from my village to get a job."
I want to either open a liquor store or a funeral parlor." Why those two things?" I figure those are the two things that everyone needs."
It was the late 90's. The police commissioner had figured out that all the people committing small crimes were the same people committing big crimes, so the cops started cracking down on all the little stuff and crime kept going down, down, down. Everything except bank robberies. Because all the big national banks were moving into the city, and buying out all the local banks. And these new corporate banks were all about "customer service.' So they replaced the retired cops at the doors with 'greeters' who would give you coffee and donuts. So word got around fast that robbing banks was fucking easy now. All you had to do was walk in, hand them a note, and they'd hand over the cash. I never even carried a gun. The security footage was so grainy back then, you could barely see anything. It was easy. It's much tougher these days. I've had dye packs explode on me three times. The worst was about a block from here. I had just left a bank, and was walking by the entrance to Penn Station during morning rush hour. Suddenly a noise starts coming from my pants, and a bright neon cloud starts shooting out. Hundreds of people were staring at me. I threw the thing away from me, hopped in a cab, and went to a bar."
Bank robbery was my crime of choice. You know, I hadn't committed a single crime until the age of 54. But then I robbed my first bank, and after that I went on quite a tear."
It was like a romantic movie. Better than a romantic movie. But then he left and went back to Greece. I offered to come along, and learn the language, but he said "no.' A few months later, a woman told me a story about how she had a dream about an old boyfriend, and she called him up, and they got back together and eventually married. I thought: 'Maybe that will work for me too.' So I called him in Greece. And he told me that he was expecting a child with another woman."
Before I entered seminary, I fell in love with God. A few months into seminary, I fell in love with philosophy. Two years into seminary, I fell in love with a girl."
What do you feel most guilty about?" Not being as happy as I should be."


We're on the way to a singing lesson right now. I tell him: "Anything you want to do, we do. Anything you want to quit, we quit.'"
When you're 25, you feel like you're riding a wave. You feel like opportunities are just going to keep coming to you, and you think it's never going to end. But then it ends." When does it end?" When you turn 40, and they start looking for someone younger."
I remember sitting at my grandfather's feet when I was eight or nine years old, while he sat in an old chair and read the New York Times. He tried to explain the creation of Israel, and the situation in the Middle East. And even though he was a rabbi and a holocaust survivor, he explained the viewpoints of everyone involved in the conflict. Then told me to decide for myself."
If I feel like there's a chance of losing someone, I'll always try to be the one that backs out first."
If it wasn't for this job, I'd still be on heroin. A few years ago, one of my bosses came to me, and he said: "You're approaching a crossroads in life, and pretty soon there will be no turning back.' Then he told me: 'Go to rehab right now. And your job waiting for you when you get back.'" What was the boss's name?" Robert DelPrete."
I'm the manager of my 14 year old son's heavy metal band. I pay for everything and handle promotion. Work is stressful, so it's my release. I'm always checking my phone to see if there are any new likes or wall postings on their Facebook page."
Do you remember the saddest moment of your life?" When I got locked up, for dealing drugs. Actually I take that back. The saddest moment was when I took my five year old daughter to the doctor and found out she needed glasses. She put on those glasses, and she said: "Daddy! Daddy! I can see! I can see!' Tears just started streaming down my face. What a fucking idiot I'd been. We'd take drives to the Catskills, and we'd point out deer to her, and she'd never seem to see them. She'd always say 'Where!? Where!?' It should have been obvious. I spent five years trying to give her everything I could, and I messed up the most important thing.'"
People have been waving at me lately. I think my daughter may have put my picture on The Facebook."
I was an English teacher. The demands of the system required that I give out grades, but I never felt good about it. How do you grade someone's writing? Writing is about revision. It's about access to self. If a student writes a poem, and it's the best they can do at the moment, how are you supposed to compare that to the student sitting next to them? How are you supposed to give one a 90, and one an 85?"
I don't want to be the mom that my mom was. I have to be very present all the time, and very watchful of any patterns I might be repeating." What pattern are you most fearful of repeating?" Shutting him down all the time. Not letting him have a voice."
My goal is to run the 400m for the Dominican National Track Team." How close are you?" I'm about two seconds away. But the last two seconds took me four years."
I've always been a listener, which can make it really hard to feel included. Whenever I'm working in a group, it seems like the outspoken people are always the ones who get acknowledged. Even if I do more work."
I work for a nonprofit as an immigration lawyer. I mainly focus on helping victims of sexual abuse and domestic violence. There is no better feeling than helping someone get their visa. When you're illegal, you're forced by necessity to be invisible, and that really affects your self-esteem on a deep level. It's a constant sense of not having permission to exist. And it's very satisfying for me to free people from that. I realize, that on a policy level, immigration issues are very complex. But for me, on a one-on-one level, it never feels complex."
I didn't start feeling special until I was forty!"
What do you feel most guilty about?" That I live on the West Coast, and my mom lives here on her own. I'm here on business, so I just got to visit her. My friend calls these "lightbulb trips.' When you visit your older parent after not seeing them for awhile, and there's something simple they need you to do, like a burned out lightbulb that they need you to reach, and you realize that if you hadn't come, they'd have been sitting in the dark."
I want to study engineering at MIT. I've still got two years until I graduate high school, so I'm trying to learn everything I can. I'm a certified cable installer, and I'm also certified in fiber optic cable, but I still need my copper based systems certification. I practice making cables all the time. I can write the perfect essay telling you how to make cables, but I still need to work on keeping my hand steady. You need a very steady hand when you're working with fiber optic cables. So for twenty minutes everyday, I work on balancing my tools on my hand, just like this."
I'm always sad." Are there certain thoughts associated with the sadness?" No, the sadness is under the thoughts. It's like when you're on a camping trip, and it's really cold, and you put on extra socks, and an extra sweater, but you still can't get warm, because the coldness is in your bones." Do you hope to get away from it?" Not anymore. I just hope to come to peace with it."
He got one of the lead roles in his school production of Hairspray. I got a little mixed up and told everyone my son was playing the lead role in Hair. Turns out that Hair is the name of a play with naked people."
I'm an architect, and I've designed buildings all over the world. Every time I get a commission in an emerging market, I get excited about the opportunity to draw from the country's heritage, culture, and art. But the client never wants it. They all want the same thing: "modern style, modern style, modern style.' Everything has to be high and glassy. It's almost as if everyone wants to hide their differences. It's boring."
I try to stay away from other people. I don't like to have to be keeping up pretenses all the time it's exhausting. Being a loner forces me to be two-faced sometimes, though. I'm always having to make up little stories to get out of social situations. But I'd much rather be alone, watching films. I enjoy watching actors. They're always pretending, just like me."
I was always fighting for the gay community. Papers, articles, pamphlets, things like that. I never really had time for a relationship. There was always something to do. Now I feel like I have the time, because I've done what I wanted to do. But once you have the time, it's almost too late."
I spent two weeks building my daughter a rocket ship out of cardboard boxes. Then when I finally finished, she started crying because it wouldn't fly."
I don't think people realize how hurtful of a word "still' can be. So many times people have asked me if I'm 'still' chasing my dream of being on television, with a tone that implies I'll eventually be giving up."
What's your greatest struggle right now?" No struggles."
A few months ago, I introduced everybody to a community that my girlfriend started called . (Named after our dog Susie, who we adopted at age eleven and has been a complete joy.) I haven't mentioned Susie's Senior Dogs in awhile, because I try to keep HONY 99.9% portraits, but amazing things have been happening over there. In the past few months, Erin has connected over 100 senior dogs with homes all over the country. Almost all the dogs are over seven years old, and some have been sitting in shelters for months or years. Now they have wonderful, loving homes in which to live out the rest of their days. So if you think you may ever want a dog, know somebody who may want a dog, or just want to be encouraged by some of the wonderful adoption stories please consider following the page. (The four dogs pictured Eva, Savannah, Holly, and Lucy all found homes through Susie's Senior Dogs.)
It was amazing to me how actors like Denzel Washington could reach out and affect people, even in The Gambia where I lived. So I decided I had to be an actor. My father prayed for me for 5 minutes on the runway. He was holding onto my hand and praying over and over, and I could see everyone watching from the windows of the plane. It was a little embarrassing but he would not let go. Finally he told me: "Now go to America. But do not forget where you came from.' I first flew to Oklahoma, because I knew other Gambians there, but I was running out of money, and I was eating nothing but noodles, and one day it got so bad that my nose started bleeding. And I said to myself: 'How am I going to be an actor in Oklahoma? If I'm going to be hungry, I'm going to be hungry in New York.' So I borrowed money for a Greyhound bus, and I rode for two days on that bus. And for the whole ride, I had nothing but water."
I'm trying to get cash flow positive."
At the end of my senior year, I took some advanced level entry exams from Cambridge University. They are very difficult and very important. When the exam scores came in, my friend called me and told me that the principal was looking for me. My father was sitting next to me. He saw my face and asked me what was wrong. "I think I did very poorly,' I told him. 'Because the principal is looking for me.' He told me that he would come to her office with me to support me. When we got there, there was a huge line of students waiting to get their scores, but the principal called me in. She told me I was one of three students in the school to get all A's. My father was so nervous when I came out, and when I told him, he hugged me so hard that I could tell he was trying not to cry. He was so happy, he took all the money out of his wallet, handed it to the security guard, and told him to pass it out to everyone in line. It was the happiest moment of my life."
My father is a surgeon in Pakistan. One day when I was in ninth grade, he picked me up from school, and told me that we needed to check on one of his patients before going home. When we got to the hospital, he asked me if I wanted to come inside. I told him I'd rather wait in the car, but he insisted. He took me up to the room of one of his patients. There was a woman lying in bed. My father had removed a tumor from her face, and then he'd restructured the bone to repair the damage. As soon as the woman saw my father, she started crying and kissing his hand. She'd already paid for the surgery. Yet she was still that grateful. She acted as if he'd given her new life. That was the day I decided I wanted to go into medicine."
I had a child when I was sixteen. I got kicked out of high school because of all the absences. My family and community pretty much wrote me off. But right away I got a job at a sporting goods store. Soon I was able to get a job as a receptionist at a tax company, and they gave me enough responsibilities that I learned how to do taxes. Eventually I learned enough to become an associate. Then I got offered a job at a smaller company, and even though it was a pay cut, they offered me responsibility over all the books accounts payable, accounts receivable, everything. It was less money but I wanted that experience so I took the risk. And I'm so glad I did, because six months later, the controller of that company left and I was given that position. They told me they couldn't officially call me the controller because I didn't have a college degree. So I finished my degree 5 months ago just to make it official! So after having a child at sixteen, I made it all the way to controller of a company, without even having a college degree. Can you believe that? Honestly, I've been waiting to tell that story so long that I told it to a customer service representative on the phone last week. She was nice about it and pretended to care."
Today in microfashion
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Well, I'm a Christian, so I'd say love one another." What do you find hardest about loving other people?" Well, I grew up in Savannah, Georgia, so I'd say prejudice."
I've been a deep believer my whole life. 18 years as a Southern Baptist. More than 40 years as a mainline Protestant. I'm an ordained pastor. But it's just stopped making sense to me. You see people doing terrible things in the name of religion, and you think: "Those people believe just as strongly as I do. They're just as convinced as I am.' And it just doesn't make sense anymore. It doesn't make sense to believe in a God that dabbles in people's lives. If a plane crashes, and one person survives, everyone thanks God. They say: 'God had a purpose for that person. God saved her for a reason!' Do we not realize how cruel that is? Do we not realize how cruel it is to say that if God had a purpose for that person, he also had a purpose in killing everyone else on that plane? And a purpose in starving millions of children? A purpose in slavery and genocide? For every time you say that there's a purpose behind one person's success, you invalidate billions of people. You say there is a purpose to their suffering. And that's just cruel."
I've been trying to change the behavior of addicts my entire life. I actually cofounded a drug and alcohol clinic. But I've become convinced that no matter how much you intervene, you can't change an addict's behavior. You just have to wait until the addict grows tired of himself." So you don't think your clinic helped anyone?" We certainly helped people. But only the ones who came to us on their own accord."
This is our first date. We met on the bus." I said all the right things." Whatever, I talked to you first."
I started taking heroin to get away from the draft, then joined the army to get away from the heroin."
I built this book cart after my bagpipes got stolen, because I couldn't afford a new set of bagpipes, and I needed to support myself. I used to sell teddy bears too. But one day last year, three undercover policeman showed up and took me to jail. It was just like a TV show one was dressed like a rapper, the other like a hooker, and the other like a tourist. They said you need a permit to sell manufactured goods. You're allowed to sell art, just not manufactured goods. I tried to tell them that my teddy bears were art because I dressed them and customized them. But all they said was: "You're going to jail.' I had to spend 2 days in jail. The judge threw out the case. But they never gave me back my teddy bears."
What's your favorite thing about your mother?" She loves life more than anyone I've ever known. I hope she doesn't mind me telling you this, but recently she's had some health problems. And her health got so bad at one point, she called me and said: "I was starting to wonder if there was any reason to go on. But then I had the most delicious pear!'"
I'm on the way to a magic meeting." You're a magician?" Well, I'm a funeral director who does magic." So what happens at magic meetings?" We spend a few minutes conducting business. Then we get to the magic!"
Do you mind if I" Take it."


I went on a tour of Italy when I was younger, and when I saw The Coliseum in Rome, I said to myself: "It doesn't look like I imagined.' A stranger standing next to me thought I was talking to him. We got married exactly one year later."
Toward the end, my father let me fill out his patient history forms at the hospital. It was the first time and last time he ever let me help him."
I don't want to live anymore."
Do you remember the saddest moment of your life?" The time I got closest to my dream, and had it pulled away." What happened?" I was down to the final two in an audition for the lead in a major TV show pilot. The network flew me out to Los Angeles. They put me up in a nice hotel and they introduced me to all of the executives. Everything felt perfect during the screen test. I thought I nailed it. Then right before I got on the plane back to New York, I got a call from my manager. He said the network thought I was "too nice' for the role."
Do you remember the angriest you've ever been?" A bunch of guys on my football team bribed my RA to let them in my dorm room, held me down, and completely mummified me in duct tape. They covered my whole body in duct tape except for my blue Italian silk boxer shorts. Then they paraded me around campus."
I'm drawing the man who raped me."
He won the Best Legs Competition on our cruise ship."
I got this jacket for $1 at The Salvation Army!"
I've been trying to get into a full time orchestra for the past 20 years. I'd guess I've been to over 200 auditions. It can be pretty heartbreaking. I tried out for the New York Philharmonic four times. One time I prepared three months for the Los Angeles Philharmonic audition, flew all the way across the country, and they cut me off after twelve seconds. But believe or not, I still have a certain amount of optimism about the process. And I think I'm getting better."
First date."
You've taken my photo before, and the comments were very hurtful."
I'd like to design algorithms to apply machine learning to quantitative market research."
I've wanted to start a business since I was sixteen, but every time I try, the demands of my regular job catch up to me and I get fatigued. A couple of years ago, my friend and I had a great idea. We started meeting every night after work. We had a great plan potential sponsors, a marketing strategy, a time line. But then things got really busy at my job. So we started meeting every other night. Then every fourth night. Then we postponed it for a month, and never found the right moment to start again. Then a year later, I picked up the newspaper, and there was an article about somebody else succeeding with the same idea. I was like, "fuck.'"
How'd you meet?" I volunteered to hand out water at an all female marathon."
I was helping him with his homework the other night, and we were reading about the king of Mesopotamia, who was a very strict and frightening ruler. And he said: "This king sounds like Principal Susan.'"
She was answering my questions in English, while speaking to her mother in Japanese, so I remarked how impressive it was that she spoke two languages already. Well her father is Russian,"  said the mom, so she speaks that too."
I grew up in the Bahamas. One summer I took a tour of the United States, and it gave me a lot of perspective on the role that my home has played in my life. I got this tattoo at the end of the tour, to represent those realizations."
My mother had a painting of herself hanging in the living room, if that tells you anything. She always thought she knew the best for everyone. If she gave you money or gifts, you'd soon learn that she was buying admission into your life. I'd never accept anything from her. If she paid for the flowers at your wedding, for example, she'd feel entitled to comment on the rest of your arrangements. It was so clear to her how everyone else should be living their life. I made a lot of bad decisions in life just to keep her from getting her way." Do you resent her?" Sure I do. We never had a conversation that wasn't part of her agenda."
Today in microfashion
I'll push kids out of the way to take my photo with a Disney character."
1027 days, 1 hour, and 44 minutes until retirement."
Check it out. I've got your book on my iPad! I thought you might be around here. A few minutes ago, some old guy reported that some guy was trying to take his picture for some website."
What's your greatest struggle right now?" Job security. I had one job for eighteen years, and right as I was starting to get lulled into a sense of security, I got laid off. The next job I had for two years, then I got laid off again. At my new job, I'm not even listed as an "employee.' I'm listed as a 'consultant.' So it would be very easy to get rid of me. And one of my kids is about to start college."
What do you feel most guilty about?" Probably not being able to give my children much stability when they were younger, because of my poor choices. I had her when I was nineteen. We were changing apartments every year. She really wasn't able to bond with anyone her age because we were moving so much."
Do you remember the happiest moment of your life?" One time back in 73', I went to see a show at the Village Vanguard by Rahsaan Roland Kirk. He was amazing. He could play three saxophones at one time. I went to his last set of the night, and I got there early and found him sitting at the bar. I went up to him and asked if I could join him on stage for a song, but he told me that he wouldn't have the time. "If you change your mind,' I told him, 'I'll be sitting in the front row corner.' I told him exactly where I'd be because he was blind. Then right at the end of the show, he started waving toward my table. I got up there and started playing, and at one point he motioned for the whole band to stop, and I got to play a solo up on the stage. Everyone was clapping for me. I rode home on the subway that night feeling like a king. Feeling like I could play with anyone in the world."
He can tell you things that happened two or three years ago. He can tell you the five largest moons of Saturn, and the distance from the Earth to the Sun. He can recite songs word for word. But early on, we noticed that he'd get very emotional around loud noises like a blow dryer or loud birthday parties. He'd also get overwhelmed around things in motion. He had a very bad experience in an inflatable jumper at a party. We noticed these things early, identified that he was on the autism spectrum, and got him in therapy. We've been working hard on it with intensive therapy from a very young age, and we're so much better. We still have some issues, but I think we're outgrowing the symptoms. I tell everyone who will listen: "Early intervention, early intervention, early intervention.'"
I left Belize when I was 12 or 13, just as all my friends were getting swept up into gangs. The gangs would get kids to do the dirty work, because they knew the kids wouldn't go to jail. I actually have an old photograph of the group of friends I used to hang out with there were seven us. After I came to America, they were all killed in the exact order that they were standing in that photograph."
Seen in Central Park
What's your favorite thing about your cousin?" His dirt bike."
Can I take your photograph?" Nah. I've got warrants."
Mom took care of me when I was sick so I wrote her a card but the teacher was too busy to help me spell it so I wrote a picture instead."
When I told my mom that I was going to rehab, she was about to catch a flight to her 40th High School Reunion. I told her: "I guess you won't be bragging about me to your friends.' She said: 'Actually, I've never been prouder of you.'"
What's your largest remaining goal in life?" Heaven."
They came to America shortly after I was born. At first, my dad worked construction and my mom did cleaning jobs. Now he owns a newsstand, and she owns a boutique. They are my idols."
I did 8.5 years on an attempted murder charge." What happened?" Some thirty year old dude kept harassing my twelve year old sister. He'd wait outside her school and invite her to parties. So I tried to kill him."
His grandmother and I are raising him. I worry about putting him into the public school system. I was a teacher for many years. I've seen so much confidence destroyed by the standardized system. Every human is born with natural curiosity. I've never seen a child who wasn't inspired. But once you force someone to do anything, the inspired person is killed. I dropped out of school myself in 7th grade. So I know. I taught a GED course for years, so I've seen the end results over and over. I've seen so many kids who have complexes and insecurities because they were forced to do something they weren't ready to do, and then they were blamed when they weren't able to do it. What we call "education' today is not organic. You can't take something as complex as the human mind, compartmentalize it, and regiment its development so strictly."
When I was 22, I fell off a fishing boat in the middle of the night. We were about 200 miles from shore, fishing for swordfish. I was trying to bend a pipe into place when it gave way and dumped me in the ocean. They didn't notice I was gone for about 20 minutes. The waves were about twelve feet high, and between the waves I could see the boat going further and further and further until it completely disappeared. You know how they say that when you're dying, you're supposed to go toward the light? Well, when I thought I was dying, the light was moving further and further away."
I'm trying to distance myself from the idea that youth is the best time of life, because a lot of my friends are really anxious about growing older. I'm studying classical drawing, which helps. It really slows things down. We can work an entire month on a single drawing. And I don't plan on reaching my peak before the age of fifty."
What do you want to be when you grow up?" A veterinarian." What's going to be the hardest part about being a veterinarian?" Getting bit."
What's something that all of you have in common?" We've all dealt with something major. And we all like the same kind of music."
I have this saying: "Things have an awfully funny way of working out.' Actually I changed it recently. Now I say: 'Things have an awfully funny way of working out. If you make them work out.'" What caused you to change your saying?" Things weren't working out."
I can walk this bucket all the way around the car without getting down. You ever seen a man wash the entire top of a car without getting off his bucket? That's right. I didn't think so."
What's something about the cello that most people don't know?" You have to buy it a seat on commercial flights."
What do you miss most about Brazil?" I'm not sure how to say in English. Can I email you?" Just try." In Brazil. My people. Money or no money. Still happy."
On my 50th birthday, my family took me to what I thought was going to be a small dinner. But when I got there, I discovered that they'd rented the entire party room. My entire family was there: brothers, sisters, nieces, nephews. They had come from all over the country, and I knew that many of them were strapped financially. It just made me feel so loved."
It seems like a much better rose from the outside. My friends in Jamaica thought that I'd be able to help support them once I got over here. But it's a rat race. You gotta bust ass just to pay the rent."
All I want is a girlfriend, a place to work, and a glass of wine at night."
He's very active."
I'm going to be an artist." Do you have any advice for other artists?" Don't press down too hard with your crayons."
I still see the same people on the corner that were there when I was eleven years old. It's tough to evolve when your surroundings never change. So I wasn't sure that I could be the one to make it out. The first time I took the GED, I failed. But for two months after that, I did practice tests everyday. And my aunt is a teacher, so when she was finished grading her papers, she'd help me break down all the problems that I couldn't figure out. And there were a lot of people in my corner. My mom encouraged me, and my sister, and my grandmother. Then the second time I passed. It felt so good to see something in yourself, and then to see it come true."
There's a lot of competition out here."
If you could give one piece of advice to yourself at the age of eighteen, what would it be?" Open up that coffee shop."
I recently lost my job in IT. When I started working over thirty years ago, computer technology changed slowly. It was like going from a skateboard, to a bicycle, to a motorcycle, to a car. Now it's changing so fast I can't keep up. Every five years it goes from a skateboard to an aircraft carrier. So I'm sitting here sketching the library to keep from going nuts."
Do you know what you want to be when you grow up?" A person."
I'm glad I had a daughter. Ever since my grandmother died, I've needed the female energy in my life. It's good energy. I mean, when things go wrong, another man can tell you that everything is going to be OK. But not like a woman can."
I tell them: "Don't think about money. Let Grandpa think about money. Just think about your education.'"
These two came flying by me in Marcus Garvey Park, and the father was narrating the bike ride as if it was the final leg of the Tour De France: They're coming around the corner!"  he screamed. The final hill is approaching! The champ is maintaining his lead! The contender seems tired! He's got the champ his sights but he may have to settle for second place!"
I was a colonel in Bangladesh."
We had our daughter right after we got married, so we had to get everything in order in a very short amount of time. Seeing what our single friends are doing, it's a struggle to be a good parent and still feel young."
I can't think of a single time I've ever been in trouble. Well, one time I came home late and missed curfew. Actually, never mind, the curfew didn't exist until after I came home late."
Should I do my dinosaur face?" Yes."
I wrote an essay about my mother. I decided she put a destructive algorithm in my head when I was a child. I call it a "mal-gorithm.' My mother always had very low self-esteem, so she never wanted me to have any confidence. She felt threatened by confident people, so her way of keeping control was to never give me any encouragement or approval. I remember one time I spent all day wrapping a gift for my grandmother. I decorated it with all sorts of designs, and glued cotton balls on the package. My mother took one look at it and said: 'What did you do that for? Grandma isn't going to care about that.' I think I realized then that I was never going to get her approval." How does this affect you as an adult?" It's very difficult for me to have the confidence to do things. I'm always anticipating the negative feelings of others But I'm working on it."
Speak slowly, we're German." What's your favorite thing about her?" . she's there." When did you most appreciate her being there?"

He made a slightly puzzled expression, then turned to his wife and started speaking in German. She looked up at the sky for a second, then said: He is island in my life."
I'm twenty two, but I don't think I'm young. I think you mature the moment you know what you want to do."
It's a constant process of letting go. The things that I was helping her with last year, this year I've got to let her do herself. Even if she messes them up."
Studying the brain is like working in a toy store. Nothing could be more fucking fun." What do you think is the greatest weakness of the brain?" That's a lousy question! I'm not answering it." Why is it a lousy question?" What do you want me to say? Road rage? That we get pissed and shoot people? That the newest parts of our brain should have been in the oven a little longer? How's that going to help you? If you ask a crappy question, you'll never get a decent answer. You need to ask smaller questions questions that give you a pathway to finding some pertinent information. The major advances in brain science don't come from asking crappy questions like "What is Consciouness?' They come from microanalysis. They come from discovering pertinent information at the cellular level."
I'm a neuroscience researcher." If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Listen to your inner voice." You're a scientist. Isn't "inner voice' a spiritual term?" Bullshit! You'll hear scientists talking about following their inner voice as much as you'd hear a musician or a priest." So how do you know which of your thoughts are your true inner voice?" All of them are! The question is how much weight do you give them? How much authority do you give your own thoughts? Are you taking them seriously? Or are you sitting in front of the damn tube letting other people tell you what to think?"
My grandfather helped raise me because my father wasn't around. One day, after I got in trouble at school, he pulled me aside, and told me: "Your mother is having a hard time, so she's not going to say it. But you need to work harder.' Then he told me about how he immigrated from Honduras, and how he had to work very hard. And he told me about how hard my mother was working. And he said it was like a chain. And that I needed to honor their hard work, by working harder."
I'm a little headstrong at work, which can get me in trouble with my manager. But if my way works just fine, why do we have to do things his way?"
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people? What would it be?" Follow your dreams." Did you follow your dreams?" Well, I started as a copy boy for the Daily News, going to school at night. And eventually I became editor of the New York Times Magazine and wrote 12 bestselling books. So, yes."
I once had a small role in a Darren Aronofsky film. I was a warlord."
At the age of 12, I was forced to marry a stranger."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Have sex with as many people as possible."
My mom was hooked on crack. We were always alone and never had any food in the house, so I only ate at school. And we never had any electricity. So every night I had to do my homework in the hallway." Do you remember the happiest moment of your life?" When I got my scholarship to Georgetown."
I've always been terrified of running into you and having absolutely nothing to say."
They are about to build two apartment high rises just feet away from the fourth largest cathedral in the world. It's the greatest crime in New York City history. And I'm not even religious."
The younger one was telling me about her boyfriend, who is good at cleaning up the classroom,"  when her older sister leaned in and said: Tell him that you kissed him."
I make freaky, sexual films.  I think my parents are worried about me." What draws you to that subject matter?" My childhood was boring as fuck."
My father had a heart attack when I was fifteen. I found him on the floor of his study, lying on his side. I could tell his heart had stopped, because all the blood pooled at the bottom of his body. The inch of his body closest to the floor was dark purple. The rest of body was completely white. He was two different colors. And neither of them were normal."
I just finished a couple's therapy session. We've had about 15 or 20 sessions so far. It's helpful. It sort of allows you to work through things at a slow, guided pace, as opposed to dealing with things during the reactive flare ups of everyday life." What's the final goal?" I guess to rediscover the deep connection that got lost in the fray over time. Getting back to the fundamentals of a relationship." What are the fundamentals?" Support. Honesty. Trust." And which of those are you having the hardest time getting back to?" Trust." Why's that?" History."
I'm sure I'd be less jealous if I was more confident."
What do you feel most guilty about" My father was a barber. He was a really proud man. He cut hair at all the nicest hotels. A couple of times when I was a teenager, just to spite him, I went and got my hair cut at another barber. It was like a thorn in his heart."
I'm working from 8 AM to 8 AM. But I do get a coffee break."
One time my mother saw my brother-in-law hit my sister. She was seventy years old at the time, but she got up out of her chair, walked across the room, and started beating him with her cane. "I was a dark skinned black woman in the 1940's,' she said. 'We didn't have any of this 'legal stuff' to protect us.'"
Do you remember the happiest moment of your life?" This one time I was in Hawaii with my family, and we were walking to the beach, and we came to the top of this giant hill. And I said, "I'm going to take it.' And I put my skateboard down, and started rolling down the hill, and I got going so fast that the board started to shake because the trucks were loose, and toward the bottom of the hill I came to this crack, and the board got caught and I was thrown onto the pavement. I got all bruised and scraped and my mom was screaming because she's a total freakout." That was the happiest moment of your life?" Yeah, I was just glad I took the hill."
We're a little bit tired. And a little bit hungry."
I've been working my whole life to make the word "organic' mean something. I lobbied for 20 years. I was hopeful when the National Organic Program was instituted in 2000. I saw an early version of the bill, two months before it was passed, and I'm telling you it was awesome. But they gutted it. By the time they got done with it, 142 synthetics were lawfully permitted in the growing of 'organic' food."
I'm at a point now where I'm trying to figure out if acting will be feasible as a way of life. I'm actually working right now. Every 1.5 hours, a theatrical tour bus drives by this spot, and I stand up and sing a song called "How Do I Get To Broadway.'"
She noticed me laughing at the title of the song. I know,"  she said. It's an act but then again, it isn't."
Seen in the subway.
I've been a divorce lawyer for 32 years. Not too many lawyers can stomach it. Divorce brings out the bad in good people, and the monster in bad people. Everyone wants to leave the table with a piece of the other."
I found a picture of a baby on his phone that looks just like him."
I'm over-invested in my children's happiness, so it's hard to relax. And I've got a musician son who thinks he can only be creative if he's unhappy."
The women love my glasses."
Seen in Washington Square Park
She died in front of me. I was seven years old, and I was helping her make the bed, and she just collapsed on the bed and never woke up. Two days later, I moved to America to live with my aunt and uncle. They didn’t tell me it was a suicide until I was old enough to begin dating. My aunt felt like I should know that my mom had killed herself over a man, because they didn’t want me to do the same thing.
My parents were always fighting. They weren’t very supportive. I used to be bitter about it. I was caught up on how my life could have been different if I had better parents. How things would have been different if x, y, and z had happened. But then you get older and you realize maybe they didn’t have the capacity to give you what you needed. They couldn’t understand you, just like you couldn’t understand them. You realize they were dealing with their own disappointments. And you even start to think, ‘Maybe I could have been a better son.’
You change what you can: you stop wearing baggy pants, you quit picking your nose in public, things like that. But when you’re done changing all the things you can change, and you’re left with the things you can’t change, and they still want you to change, then you start to know in your heart that it’s not going to work. The divorce was scary and confusing and emotional, especially because there were kids involved. But in the end, there was a peace. There was finally a truce of sorts.
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?Quit invading other countries for their resources.
Instead of moms and dads, we had counselors."
We're eye doctors." What's something about the eye that most people don't realize?" The eye doesn't see. The brain sees. The eye just transmits. So what we see isn't only determined by what comes through the eyes. What we see is affected by our memories, our feelings, and by what we've seen before."
What's your greatest struggle right now?" Deciding when is the right time to share my artwork. Knowing if it's ready. Or if it's ever going to be ready."
I had a heart attack in the exact spot you're standing."
I just got married and have three new stepchildren. So what's been your greatest accomplishment as a stepmother so far?" They don't hate me."
What do you feel most guilty about?" Not having enough direction. Everyone in this city seems so specific."
I came from the Dominican Republic when I was 15. The first day of school, I couldn't speak English and I didn't know anybody. I wanted to cry all day. I didn't even want to go to lunch. Six months later, he moved to the US, and came to school feeling the same way. So I showed him how everything works. We've been best friends ever since."
I found a ladybug, a beetle, and a little tiny bug that I don't know." So what advice would you give to other bug collectors?" You have to be really focused and find a rock that is big but not too big and you lift it up and if there's not any bugs you put it back down. But if there is a bug and you like it, you put it in your bug jar. But if you don't like it you put it back and put the rock back down."
I shouldn't have moved in with him just because I was lonely."
I'd say 20 percent of the people sleeping at my shelter want to improve their condition, and become self-supporting. Another 30 percent are mentally unstable. And it seems the other 50 percent have just grown comfortable with being taken care of, and don't have any plans beyond smoking or drinking. It's this last 50 percent that make it so difficult for the 20 percent of us who really want to change our lives. But they actually motivate me. Because I never want to be like them."
Do you remember the happiest moment of your life?" My dad used to play trumpet in a big band. One time when I was a kid, he was playing on a cruise ship, and I got to dance with a very wealthy woman." Do you remember the saddest moment of your life?" When they made me start taking the medication."
I wish I'd been more compassionate toward my mother." In what way?" My father committed suicide when I was nine. I wish I'd understood and accepted my mother's depression, instead of reacting against it."
I've always been very afraid of being lonely. So I focused on making art that people liked, and that was easy to consume. But art wasn't fun anymore. So now I just draw weird cartoons."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Just because you admire someone, doesn't mean you have to try to be like them." Who's someone you admired that you tried to be like?" For a few weeks I was wearing the same brands as this skater named Kevin Bradley. And some of my friends were making fun of me for it. They were like: "Why are you neckin' Kevin Bradley?' And I thought about it, and I realized that it was stupid to try to be like someone else. Because I'm cool enough myself."
Second day."
My first marriage lasted ten years." What happened?" A wise man once told me: "Religious ideology set aside, a relationship needs two things to survive: sex and money.' And mine didn't have much of either." Who said that quote?" My father."
Today my dad needed a haircut, and I didn't need a haircut. But I went with him anyway because he wanted me to."
He's helped me be more comfortable with my emotions. I've never liked that I have emotions. They make me feel weak."  Why is that?"  My mother was always confiding her problems in me when I was growing up. She counted on me for support. I guess I felt like I had to be strong to set an example."
My mom wants me to be perfect and well-behaved and religious. If I'm less than perfect, she doesn't want anything to do with me. Recently I met my dad for the first time on my 20th birthday. I visited him in prison and really opened up to him. I told him that I was into girls, and that I smoke, and stuff like that. He was much more understanding than my mom. But then again, he really has no choice."
I taught English in Thailand for a year, and I tried to continue in education when I returned to the United States, but it wasn't nearly as fulfilling for me. In Thailand, teachers are really revered. In the hierarchy of prestige, it goes: kings, then monks, then teachers. Parents would always be asking for advice. My students would come up and hug me in the streets. It was almost like I was being welcomed into the families of my students, and we were working together toward education. Back in America, it felt like Home and School were two different zones. It felt more isolating. In Thailand, I definitely felt like I was making a difference. In America, it felt like "maybe' I was making a difference."
I've got a wife and three kids, and a job I'm trying to hold on to. It's a lot of work and it's a lot to worry about, so it's easy to fall into a routine where all I'm doing is worrying about the next moment. In the midst of all this, sometimes I have to force myself to step back and appreciate the wonderful things that have already happened: one of my children is a budding artist, the other is beautifully kind, and the other is full of energy and potential. And they're all happy. And they're all healthy."
When you explore in jungles, it's important to not get too close to the animals. Also bring some canned food, and a tranquilizer in case a tiger attacks you."
Despite being from Norway, and having a very limited grasp of English, they made a heroic attempt to answer my questions. She likes that he's always there when I'm sad."  And according to him, she's a Good runner. And good garden worker."
I asked him to tell me his favorite song. He strummed randomly on the guitar a few times, and said: That one."
He's always supported a sense of independence in me." How has he done that?" By letting me do what I damn well please."
Do you remember the happiest moment of your life?" Yes. In 1977. My family was sitting by the fireside, during a blizzard, and my mother was reading Great Expectations to me and my father, while we painted a regiment of Blackwatch Highlanders, which were little Scottish soldiers from the Napoleonic wars."
I prefer maritime laws over laws on land. Maritime laws only exist to guarantee safe passage. There are no loopholes or biases to favor more powerful vessels. Every ship is equal, and no one is more powerful than the sea."
Sometimes I'm not sure how to ask for help, without making them think they made the wrong decision in hiring me."
I'm always checking the Wikipedia pages of my idols to see where they were at my age."
Going through life without God is like being an astronaut tumbling out of control in outer space. You grab on to this, but it breaks, and you tumble some more. Every time you lose something that you tried to hold on to your marriage, your job, your mom you start tumbling even faster. So you've got to stay close. You can't cut your umbilical cord. But you don't have to go to church. God is everywhere. God is that blade of grass trying to come up through the concrete. So many people go to church, and leave church, not even realizing that they are the church. You just need to make a determination in your mind that you want to find and believe in the truth."
Seeing her do all these beautiful movements on stage, when you've watched her grow from the tiniest little thing oh man, those dance recitals make me cry."
I think I sell myself short sometimes. I'm afraid to ask for what I want, because a part of me is afraid I don't deserve it."
I made the mistake of dating inside the friend group. Then when we broke up, the friend group went with him."
I told her: "You know that feeling you get about Dad? Well I feel that way too. About a girl.'"
Seen in Midtown
After the kid came, we both became less attached to each other, and more attached to the kid. We stopped talking to each other at night. We stopped being intimate." Did you realize you this was happening?" We did." Then why didn't you stop it?" Because I think we both wanted it to happen."
I'm gonna be an ice cream man!"
I'm new at all this." What's been the toughest part?" When she's crying, and I don't know why and I don't know how to fix it." What's been the most satisfying part?" When she looks at me and smiles, as if saying: "Thank you Mom.'"
There weren't as many easy jobs when I was coming up. None of these sit-behind-the-keyboard jobs. I was a necktie manufacturer. I worked harder for my dollars, and every year they are worth less and less. I think it's a government conspiracy against the working man."
She doesn't force her beliefs on other people. Just because she doesn't do drugs, for example, she's not judging people who do. She knows the difference between an opinion and a moral standard."
I was in charge of a unit assigned to River Boat Patrol. One night we were tossing grenades into the water, and it sounded like one landed inside of the ship, so everybody jumped off. Turned out it was just an empty container clanking around, but one of the guys never made it back to the ship. A few days later, some villagers found his body in the river and brought it to our camp. It was really bloated."
We always write letters to each other. She wrote me letters the whole time I was in the hospital. When I thought my hand was never going to work again, she wrote me a letter that said: "At the very least, I expect you to pick up a marble when I see you next.' I'm actually going to see her in a few hours. But I still want to have a letter to give her."
I'm trying to determine how sensors can be used to collect information about soils and plants so that farmers in India can better manage their crops."
I was at a really low point last summer. I stopped talking to everyone, and started taking downers." How'd you pull out of it?" I joined a dance group. I'm heading there right now, in fact."
One time I was taking him and a friend to the park, and his friend had a slight walking problem. I didn't even notice it, so I was walking pretty fast. He ran up to me, tapped me on the shoulder, and whispered: "Dad, will you please slow down?' I'll never forget that."
I've been training in martial arts for 24 years. And I've never once been in a fight outside the academy."
I brought a guy home with me last 4th of July. When I woke up, he was frantically patting the bed around him. Then he told me: "I think I pissed the bed.' He was right. I ended up having to go buy some spray at the pet store." Did you go out with him again?" Once or twice."
I'm thinking about something at work, and how I'm going to conquer it." So what are you going to conquer?" There's a project I'm working on with a group. And I think I've figured out a way to do it better, faster, and cheaper. So I'm gonna be like a hawk. I'm about to swoop in. I'm not gonna be a vulture. A vulture waits until things fall apart, then comes in with the solution. But I'm not waiting. I'm gonna swoop. Like a hawk. A hawk grabs the rat while it's still alive." So are your coworkers the rats?" No, no, no. They're helping with the rats. They're mongooses. Mongeese."
I tend to be cynical about a lot of things, but Maya Angelou is somebody that no matter how much I pick her apart, she still has integrity. She was a victim of incest and rape, and she worked as a stripper. And now she’s a literary icon and Nobel Laureate. It goes to show that life is cumulative, and you can’t devalue any type of experience."
We thought it was an appropriate ring for two people who'd decided they never wanted to get married."
I had a son who passed away when he was four years old. I was recording a record in Florida at the time, and my wife called to tell me that Jamie was listless and had a temperature. Then the next day, he died suddenly." What's the happiest memory you have of your son?" This one time and we have a photograph of this he was sitting in front of a 23 lb turkey, flanked by two of his siblings. He was holding a knife and a fork in his hands, acting like he was about to cut into it. And he had the most joyous look on his face."
I'm trying to succeed in real estate without being a douchebag."
I had open heart surgery a couple years back, so you could even say that my heart is tattooed."
My dad stole my car." Your dad stole your car?" Yep. He hot wired it. I got a call from the cops that my car was in a high speed chase down the interstate. They ended up spike stripping him, but he still tried to get away. He broke his foot kicking in the windshield. Inside the car they found a whiskey bottle, beer cans, and strip club vouchers. At least he totaled the thing so I got insurance money."
People confuse the source of their happiness. They become temporarily happy when they get a new car, or a new house, or a new marriage. And they think that they are suddenly happy because of this new thing in their life. In reality, they are happy because for a brief moment, they are without desire. But then soon another desire comes along. And the search continues."
Seen in Central Park
I saw a drummer in Central Park give his sticks to a little kid, so that he could have a try. Ten minutes later, this was happening
I see Coney Island!"
By nature I am a facilitator. I'm always trying to explain away things, or cover them up. I thought I was just being compassionate and understanding. But my son says, "Mom, you are a facilitator.' I guess it's a new concept."
Seen at Coney Island
What's your sister's best quality?" What does "quality' mean?" What's the best part of her personality?" She doesn't really have a personality yet."
Do you remember the saddest moment of your life?" Nice meeting you. I've got to get back on the bus."
I looked different before the cancer."
What's the most trouble you've ever gotten in?" Tried to talk to a female cadet at boot camp." Decided to test the pepper spray." Didn't shave."
I came over with a student visa. I wanted to study computers, but I couldn't enroll in school until I could prove that I had money to pay the tuition. The first three weeks I slept on trains. I kept asking people where I could find the Senegalese community. Eventually I met a person who told me to go to Harlem because there was an African community there. In Harlem, I found an association for Senegalese people. And they had places to stay for people who were new. I did restaurant and cleaning jobs for a couple of years. Eventually I met my wife and became a citizen. And now I have a security job, so I can finally enroll in school."
Seen in East Village
If you could give one piece of advice to yourself at the age of eighteen, what would it be?"
If you want something, you've got to ask. Hard work isn't enough. Yes, you need to work hard. But then you've got to ask."
I'm not bragging or anything, but I'm no ordinary dude. I know I look like an old fart rolling around the neighborhood. But I used to be a model in GQ. And I was on that show, Flipper. And one time, a famous photographer took a portrait of me and hung it in the Brooklyn Museum. He titled it "The Old Master."
Master of what?"
Bullshit, I guess."
If you could give one piece of advice to  a large group of people, what would it be?"
Don't make eye contact."
It seems like I start crying once a day. Even commercials have been setting me off lately. I think I'm going through menopause or something."
I don't take selfies. Not that I have anything against them. My arms are just too short."
I just turned 30. I think one of the reasons I have such a hard time quitting smoking is that it connects me to my teenage years."
I recently managed to completely let go of my past."
What part of your past was the hardest to let go?"
A missed opportunity with a woman. She believed in me more than I believed in myself, but I wasn't ready to commit. She told me: "If you keep on like this, you're going to end up old and alone.'"
How long ago was that?"
40 years."
If you could change one decision you've made, what would it be?"
I'd probably decide to talk to some people that I was afraid to talk to."
Who specifically?"
I don't know. I never met them."
They kicked us out of the Natural History Museum because he kept humping the wax statues."
One day I will be in charge of the New York City Public School System."
We should have learned how to make apps."
It was even more meaningful because my mother died two years ago, on this day."
Hold on a sec. I'm having a bad hijab day."
I met her when she was visiting New York for two-and-a-half weeks. Let's just say "two weeks,' to make it a little more exciting. So we spent a lot of time together, and the night before she left to go back to the Philippines, she asked me if I was serious about our relationship. And I said 'I don't know.' Then I went home and laid awake all night. Her flight left at 9 AM. So at 4 AM, I texted her to wait for me outside of security. Then I got into a cab and rushed to the airport. I got there just in time. And before she went inside, I told her: 'I am serious. We will be together.' Now Brandon, I need you to make this sound very romantic. Choose a picture of me looking into the distance, and for the last line, say: 'Now I am wondering when we will be together again.' Because I am going to tag her in this."
What's the best piece of advice your dad has ever given you?" No excuses."
What's your favorite thing about your mom?" She's smart."
At this point in my life, I'm trying to figure out the things I truly care about." What's something you care about less than you did ten years ago?" Being extraordinary."
I've got a meeting in five minutes. We're trying to change zoning laws to limit the height of buildings on 57th Street. We don't want shadows in Central Park!"
My father was a crackhead. My mom was bipolar. It is what it is."
I separate and fold the linen." How'd you get that job?" Prayed for it."
I've got to bail my brother out of jail. They said they wouldn't have arrested him if he hadn't eaten the joint."
My dad died in 9/11. They opened up the museum to families today, so I went this morning. My plan was to go to work after, but I just couldn't do it." What happened to him?" He was a cop. He actually had the day off. But as soon as he heard, he drove into the city and got there just in time for the second tower to fall. A witness said that my dad had started to run when the tower fell, but turned back because a trapped woman was calling to him." What do you remember?" I was in science class. And my teacher told us that there had been a plane crash. That's all she said. Then I noticed all these kids around me getting phone calls and text messages, and they'd run out of class. So I knew something big was happening. Soon we got let out of school. On the ride home, I remember thinking that my dad was going to be working overtime on this. I imagined he'd be down there everyday, saving people. "I bet I won't see him for weeks,' I said."
It's hard to be taken seriously when you don't have connections. And unfortunately, when you don't have connections, it seems like the only people you can connect with are other people who don't have connections."
My mother died of cancer when I was 14." In what way do you think you're most similar to her?" I'd say sense of humor. She was always playing pranks on my sister and me." What's an example of a prank she pulled?" One time she whispered for me to come into the bedroom. Then she turned out all the lights, and strung clear tape all across the door frame. Then she yelled for my sister."
We're going to get inside this tire and roll down the hill!" No you're not." Yes we are!" No you're not."
She wants me to get all weird and emotional. She actually gets upset when I don't get angry."
My dad was in prison for eight years of my life. When he got out, he spent a little time with us, but then he got a new girlfriend and started spending all his time and money on her. My mother doesn't have much money, so I recently asked him if he could pay for a class trip to Spain. He promised he would, so my grandmother went ahead and put it on her credit card. But right before he was going to give me the money, we got in an argument. He started saying bad things about my mother, which I wasn't going to allow. Afterwards, he texted me that he was going to take the money for my trip, and spend it on himself. He told me he was going to take photos of all the things he bought and post them on Instagram. So I took a screenshot of the text message, and posted it on Instagram, with the hashtag: . He reported me to Instagram for bullying, so they deleted the post. Then I put it right back up, hashtag ."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Be careful with that Framily Plan on your cell phone. My framily racked up a $1500 bill. Then he disappeared."
The college admission process prioritizes American citizens, so the remaining spots for international students are very competitive. Plus there's no way that my parents will be able to pay tuition, so I've got to get a scholarship. But I think I've got a good shot. My grades are good. I kicked the most field goals in the city last year. And I'm growing 180 liters of algae down the street. Oils extracted from algae can be converted into biofuels."
I have this theory. You ready? So we are on earth for a finite amount of time. And time is a manmade perception. And we perceive time passing through change seasons, aging, things like that. So to expand our time on earth, we must incite as much change in our lives as possible." Interesting. I haven't heard that before." That's because I made it up!"
My kids are teenagers now, and they're going off on their own. And you understand it, but it's hard for it not to hurt. Like the day you realize you're not allowed in your daughter's room anymore. Or when your son doesn't want you to show him how to do something. The relationship tends to ebb and flow between "help me' and 'leave me alone.' But lately, it's been much more 'leave me alone.'"
I happened to be volunteering at an organization to help people with HIV, when I found out I was positive."
He spoke very little English, but he wanted his picture taken.
I walked out on my kids when they were young. I was a mess physically, socially, financially. My relationship with their mother was a mess. I couldn't handle it, so I just said "fuck it,' and I left. It really messed me up mentally. I'll never be able to think of myself as a decent father. I blew it."
I went home to my country after I graduated. I thought I was going to be a change agent. Things were so corrupt there, that you had to pay a bribe to even get a driver's license. I set up community organizations. I thought if people had information, and knowledge, the culture would change. But nothing changed. It's so hard to build a democracy in a country with no history of democracy. Nobody cared about changing the country. They only wanted to enrich themselves. "Everyone has to eat,' they would say."
I took a gap year. And a half. I was feeling a bit lost and wasn't sure what I wanted to do." Do you know now?" Not really."
Seen on Upper East Side
What's your favorite thing about your brother?" Nothing!"
Yet they won't sleep in different beds,"  said Dad.
One time when I was a kid, I came home from band rehearsal and my grandmother told me: "Something's happened. But don't overreact.' Then said that my mother was being held for ransom, because she owed somebody money or something. We had to call everybody in the family to get the money together. Then a couple days later she came home."
I've been eating a lot more lately, which is good." Did you have an eating disorder?" I never had an eating disorder. But I always had really bad eating anxiety. I always felt like people were watching me when I was eating, so I couldn't eat in front of people. Anyway, I'm getting past it."
I want to die in Poland."
We don't even know her. She just jumped on."
I'm first generation. My parents moved here from China. My older sister's in a good college, and knows exactly what she wants to do. And I'm not doing as well. I think I may be a disappointment to my family."
He had a couple of coworkers hovering around during his interview, throwing out one-liners. At one point I asked him: If you could give one piece of advice, what would it be?" Don't sweat the small stuff,"  he answered.What small stuff do you sweat the most?"  I asked.
His balls!"  screamed his coworker.
When I was little, he'd always let me stand on his feet when we walked in the ocean, because I was so afraid of jellyfish."
The hope is that after 8 years, I'll be made a partner. Until then, the job description basically states that I will be worked to death." So what's your greatest fear about the next 8 years?" Turning 40 and not having a personal life. Finding out that I've gotten where I want to be, but there's nobody in my life to give a shit about where I am or what I've done."
Let's not get too deep. I've got an infection on my eyelid. You can write that."
Nobody came to my tenth birthday party. I have a very vivid memory of helping my mother set the table, then watching through the window as the sun slowly set, before finally realizing that nobody was coming. That moment pretty much set the themes for the rest of my life."
I had really hippie, alternative parents. They pulled me out of middle school because they didn't think it was fulfilling me creatively, and we drove across country in an RV." Wait, were you home schooled? You can't just not go to school, can you?" Actually, you kinda can."
Therapy seems to be going well. Dad said "I love you.'"
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Don't take shit from nobody!" Who do you take the most shit from?"  my customers."
My dad was a very hard-driving man." Can you give an example of a time he was hard-driving?" This happened before I was born, but I saw a newspaper article about it. One time my dad got a flat tire in the middle of the night. He didn't have a spare, so he got out of the car and started rolling the tire to the nearest town, which was ten miles away. Along the way, a guy pulled over and offered to give him a ride. Once my dad was in the car, the man pulled a knife on him and tried to rob him. My dad knocked the guy out, got his tire back out of the car, and rolled it the rest of the way to town. When the cops found the man, he was still unconscious in his car. And it turned out he had a warrant for armed robbery."
He only sent me one letter from camp." But there were chocolates in there. Expensive ones."
What do you want to be when you grow up?" Dora The Explorer."
I've got three core beliefs: eat right, exercise, and don't smoke. I figure I better do two of those things."
I'm trying to repair my relationship with my mom. It fell apart at a young age. I'd say it was 90 percent my fault- give or take 10%. I was always getting in trouble. I started smoking weed at the age of eleven. The final wedge between us came when she stopped getting emotional about my behavior. That's when the relationship ended. Because even when she was the angriest, there was still a relationship. If someone's hateful toward you, that still means something."
One time I was driving this couple around, and they told me to drive really slowly through Times Square because they'd always dreamed of doing something. I started to ask what, but then they closed the partition. And the limo started bouncing around so much that people on the street were asking me if I had engine trouble."
What's your greatest struggle right now?" Wondering if we'll fit in when we go to high school next year."
One thing that is crazy to think about is how many normal Nazis there were. All the ordinary people who got swept up by this man, and suddenly they are involved in terrible things, and they don't know how they got there, and they don't know how to get out. But don't use that quote. I don't want anyone to think I'm a Nazi sympathizer."
Seen on the Upper West Side
I was hoping I'd be somebody by now."
We're jazz musicians." If jazz was a person, how would you describe that person?" Some dick that doesn't pay me."
The haters are going to be so mad when I make my millions."
I'm telling you. Prayer works." What's a time that prayer didn't work for you?" The time I didn't pray."
What do you want to be when you grow up?" A mom." What's going to be the hardest part about being a mom?" Bath time."
What's your greatest struggle right now?" Not being white."
You want us to act natural? Watch this. We can do natural."
Sometimes I stay up late without asking."
She even believed in me when we were living in her parents' living room."
I was a real asshole."
Everyone I waited on tonight seemed to think that tipping was a city in China."
She's lived here for five years, but she's moving back to Japan tomorrow. So we're spending one last night together." What's the best time you guys spent together?" Probably that night in Antigua." What happened in Antigua?" We were the only young people at the hotel. So we just got really drunk, and ended up with a lot of funny iPhone pictures the next morning." Let's see the iPhone pictures." I'm pretty sure I deleted them." You didn't delete them." I think I did." We all know you didn't. Let's see em'."
If you were to give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Don't have a third kid."
I'm preparing a lecture on upper Manhattan mineral collecting." So what's the greatest mineral you've ever collected in upper Manhattan?" One time I was exploring a construction site, and I found the first documented case of Chamosite on Calcite in Manhattan. And that's a pretty big deal. And to be absolutely honest, it's making my day that you seem to give a shit about this stuff."
My husband got a rare brain tumor called Acoustic Neuroma, which required surgery. We started out as being recovery minded. We put all this energy into healing, and trust in Western medicine, and believing that everything was going to be just fine. Then at some point we had to accept that it's not going to get back to normal. And it's not going away. And it's not that we aren't trying hard enough. It just is."
We just went with my family to a Broadway show. I got into an argument with my siblings about who should get the seats closest to the stage. I thought it should be us, because my siblings had already seen two shows this week. So I turned to her, expecting her to back me up, and she said: "Get over yourself.'"
I want to do be a zoo designer." What's the most important part of being a zoo designer?" Making the habitats feel like home." What would be your favorite habitat to design?" The wolf habitat." And what would that look like?" It would be big and have a mountain and a lot of evergreens and a little grass but not a lot of grass because most wolves live in Alaska and there's probably not a lot of grass there."
She was the perfect child growing up. Never gave me any trouble. Well, I take that back. She had one asshole boyfriend. He was an absolute nightmare. But other than that, she was the perfect child."
We're gonna be on Mom's favorite website."
The amplitudes of life get smaller as you age. There are less and less things to experience for the first time. And each time you experience something, you don't get quite as excited. But you don't get quite as hurt either. I wonder what it will feel like when I'm seventy"
I remember the first time that I knew I loved him and I was going to spend the rest of my life with him. We were driving down some back road in Utah, and we stopped at a light in front of an old water park, and he looked to the left to make a turn. And at that moment, I knew. And that night he kissed me for the first time." But you said he looked left. Weren't you sitting on his right?" Yeah, I was looking at the back of his head. Not quite as romantic, is it?"
Saddest moment? How am I supposed to choose between losing my parents and seeing my friends die in Vietnam? I don't categorize those things. Listen, a person is like a rubber band ball. We've all got a lot of bad rubber bands, and a lot of good rubber bands, and they're all wrapped up together. And you've got to have both types of bands or your rubber band ball ain't gonna bounce. And no use trying to untangle them. You know what I'm saying?"
BREAKING NATURE NEWS: Due to above-average precipitation this spring, the carnivorous Hudson Valley Swamp Yeti has been flushed from its traditional habitat, and has been spotted as far south as Central Park.
I've taken over five thousand portraits of people in New York, and I find out a little bit about everyone I photograph" Well, you're not finding out a thing about me!"
Now my happy feelings are twenty thousand times happier than they were before."
I was never once afraid to fight. I was a brawler. A bull. I even fought in Madison Square Garden. But it knocked me out for a whole year when my mom died."
What do you want to be when you grow up?" A princess." What kind of princess will you be?" The one from Frozen."
I just got in a fight with my best friend." What about?" I don't even know. It's finals week."
One time we were driving through Italy, and we were listening to a radio station that played nothing but melodramatic Italian love songs. So we started inventing translations. The stories we made up kept getting more and more ridiculous, and the laughter kept escalating until soon we were both in tears.
The shelter gives you homework to keep your mind busy.
He broke up with me once. For a day."
I had forty acres and a new home out in California. I was working as a stone mason. I could bring in $6000 cash some weeks. Then I was walking home one night and someone tried to kill me. I got brain damage. I lost my sense of smell, my sense of taste, most of my hearing, and now I can barely stand without getting dizzy. I must have fallen and cracked my head open thirty times since then. Everything I knew has been washed out into the water. I’ve tried to commit suicide several times.
What's your favorite thing about her?" She still gets giddy when she sees a firefly."
I'm broke. I'll tell you what give me $200 and I'll let you take pictures of me all day long. We can go anywhere in the city. We'll even get my hair cut so I look just like Martin Lawrence."
I’m about to be a young father, so I’m trying to find a job. But nobody’s calling me back.
Just met."
When I first moved to the United States, my mother had to stay back in Guyana. I was seven when I left, and I didn't get to see her again until five years later. I'd say the happiest moment of my life was the day we finally reunited." What did you do that day?" Just laid in bed and cuddled."
I'm having trouble figuring out how to make money with music, without making music about making money."
Today in microfashion
When I was little, we had a chicken that broke its leg. My mom told me she sent it to live on a farm. But I found out later that she sold it to a place where chickens get their heads chopped off."
I'm pretty sure the doctor did my surgery with a blindfold on."
Do you remember the saddest moment of your life?" A few years ago my dad had to get a paternity test for his citizenship papers, and we discovered that he wasn't my biological father." How did that change your relationship?" It didn't."
I got the Peacekeeper Award in class." How did you get that?" Well first I had to be chosen as the Peacekeeper. Then, if two people are having an argument, me and my other friend go up to them and try to fix the problem. Then if we can't fix the problem, we go and tell Ms. Jamie."
What's your greatest struggle right now?" My relationship with my dad. He was not in my life for ten years, and now he depends on me financially. We have a very "Can you?', 'Will you?', and 'When will you?' type of relationship. And I'm having a hard time with it."
I ended a 13 year relationship last year. It was emotionally traumatic for me. I wanted to try to repair the relationship, but he thought it was irreparable. He ended it so suddenly. I was trying to show him affection one night, and he just said: "I can't do this anymore.' It hurt so badly. He could have been much more nuanced about it." Do you think it ultimately would have hurt more if he'd been more incremental about it? That's hard to say. Though I did find a much better partner shortly after the breakup."
Do you know how much it fucking sucks to ask your mom for money when you're 43?"
My dad found out about his surprise birthday party. He tricked me into telling him by coming up to me and saying: "I know what you're up to.' I had to beg him to come. He's very private and doesn't like to be the center of attention. At the last minute, he even called me from the front yard and said: 'I changed my mind. I can't do it.'"
My mom is always posting your shit on my wall."
He's almost as good as me, so he keeps me challenged."
We're hoping to get some funding from angel investors before telling our parents we aren't going to college."
Sometimes my mom grounds me because of my attitude, which gives me a bad attitude."
I'm in my third year of college, and I still remember when my second grade English teacher told me that if I kept acting up in class, I wasn't going to go to college. It made me so mad. Now I actually go back and speak to her class. I tell them: "Don't worry if Ms. Hendricks is tough on you. That means she likes you.'"
You ever seen that movie Divergent? Well, it's about this woman who doesn't fit in to any particular society. I watched that movie last week, and I thought "that's me.' I do women's cuts. I do men's cuts. I do color. I do braids. I'm like The Divergent of hair."
Do you remember the happiest moment of your life?" When I got my college degree." Do you remember the saddest moment of your life?" When I figured out I couldn't use it."
I'm a cinematographer." How do you differ from other cinematographers?" That's tough to put into words. We all have different visions. You know how when you read a book, your mind creates a vision to match the words? Cinematography is just trusting that vision."
When I'm doing work around the house, I give him this educational iPad app to play with, and he's completely absorbed by it. Then recently we were at the grocery store, and he wanted to tear into some yogurt, and I told him that he had to wait until we paid for it. He said: "You mean I need to be patient?' I thought: 'Whoa.'"
If a child isn't proficient in reading by 3rd grade, their HS dropout rate is 4x higher. So I'm trying to develop a system to help blind children develop literacy as soon as possible. If you think about it, books for young children are picture-driven, with very few words per page. So it's tough for blind kids to really participate. So we recommend pre-reading activities to build the scene before the story begins. If you're reading Goldilocks for example, take the child to the kitchen first, allow them to feel where the scene is going to be set. If the story is about a lamb, get a fluffy towel, so they can feel what a lamb looks like. It's all about making the reading process as experiential as possible, so blind children can place themselves in the story without the aid of pictures."
Having a child is constraining. There's a lot of things you used to do that you can't do anymore. But it's also extremely expanding." How is it expanding?" Because you suddenly relate to everyone else on earth who has a child. No matter what race, class, or creed."
When I was sixteen, I moved to this new high school, and this girl kept picking on me. Picking on me, picking on me, picking on me. One day I got so angry, I told her: "Meet me outside after school. We're gonna fight.' She was my best friend after that. She wouldn't let anyone pick on me."
What's the most frightened you've ever been?" Every morning I wake up." Why's that?" I'm old, I'm sick, I'm crippled, and nobody wants my art."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Don't sweat petty stuff, and don't pet sweaty stuff."
It's not easy being a jazz musician that's supposed to be famous."
My dad always wanted me to work in an office and wear a suit, but all he ever showed me was how to work with my hands. And that's what I love to do."
Today in microfashion
I got asked to act in a student film about a breakup. When I showed up, I found out that the actress was some girl who actually dumped me in 6th grade."
I've got a lot of faults. I'm sure I'm not easy to live with. I'm not the best communicator. And I'm sure it's not very cool to see your man crawling on the floor of a hotel room. But she loves me."
It's the City of Dreams but it's fucking hard. It seems like there are endless opportunities all around you, and they seem so real and tangible, and then suddenly they dissolve out of nowhere."
Today in microfashion
So much of who I am is because of Dr. Seuss."
Two other people took my picture before you, so I was already popular."
What's your favorite thing about each other?" His honesty." Her hashbrowns."
Seen at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden
How many times did he cheat on you?" Physically, just once." So how do you define cheating?" If you're hiding texts, you're probably cheating."
It is my belief that God created one earth, and we humans have wrongly drawn boundaries to fulfill our personal and political desires."
Seen on Madison Avenue
What's your favorite thing about your brother?" He's cute."
Today in microfashion
I dated a meth addict once. I didn't find out until eight months into the relationship, so I tried to stick it out. After he got clean, we took a trip to San Francisco so we could "start over.' The first morning there, he woke up early and said he was going to get some breakfast. Then he took all my money, and all my credit cards, and disappeared for two days. When I finally found him, he was getting blown by some dude in an adult theater, so I backhanded him in the face and knocked out a couple of teeth. The entire flight back, he wrote me apology notes on airplane napkins. Which I still have, by the way, to remind me never to date a meth addict."
I can play the bassoon, contrabassoon, flute, piccolo, alto flute, bass flute, clarinet, saxophone, tenor saxophone, piano, guitar, recorder, harmonica, and a carrot." A carrot?" Yeah. You can put a mouthpiece on a hollowed carrot and it sounds like a pathetic duck."
I want to be a teacher." What's the best part about being a teacher?" Teaching."
I've got a big ole jar of perfectly crystalized California weed at home."
I tend to close myself off when I'm angry. So he'll be patient with me until I'm ready to yell at him." Oh yeah, I can't wait."


I want to be a spy. Like a chocolate James Bond."
It gives me emotional power."
Seen in Central Park
BREAKING NATURE NEWS: Numerous agencies are now confirming that the Albino Death Puma has emerged fully from its winter quarters and resumed feeding on the giant sturgeon of Central Park Boat Pond.
My coworkers are over there laughing at me right now."
I was scared when my mom died, because she was always giving me good advice. And I wasn't sure I'd be able to make it without her advice." What's the best piece of advice she ever gave you?" Believe in God." When did you find it the hardest to believe in God?" I guess when I was eighteen or nineteen, cause you know, it's the age you're becoming a man, and you feel like you're in control. Then you find out that you're not."
That's my boss. Gotta go."
What's your greatest struggle right now?" Hitting a kick flip." Getting my average past 90." Getting some vagina." Me too."
Our moms set us up."
It's important to forgive." Who do you have the hardest time forgiving?" Myself."


One time we we had a project in class, and my friend said he didn't want to be my partner, and I got an A+, and he just got an A."
My best friend's husband was a police officer who died in a shootout. For a few days, the media presented the story as a tragedy. Then I guess everyone got bored with that angle, because the story changed after a few days, and the media started reporting on the size of the insurance settlement my friend received. The story completely changed based on what they chose to focus on. I haven't watched TV since."
I have a little girl at home that I love so much, but I also love my job. Part of me wants to be home all the time to see every little change she goes through. But part of me feels like I owe it to her to be what I always wanted to be."
My girlfriend caught me with another woman. Now she won't even let me get my stuff out of the apartment! I said "C'mon, Sweetheart.' And she said 'Fuck you Motherfucker!' I tried going back when she wasn't home, to see if I could get the dog to open the door. But he was too small. Our last dog could open the door. But not this one."
My real name's Ariel. So my stage name is Murdermaid."
What's your greatest struggle right now?" I wouldn't have volunteered if I'd known this conversation would be so long. But to answer your question, I've got a wife that's sick. And I wish she wasn't sick so that I could live life with her, and so that I wouldn't have to be alone."
Today in microfashion
What's your favorite thing about her?" Her intelligence." What's a time that she really impressed you with her intelligence?" Every single day. She's the CFO of my company."
If you could give one piece of advice to other kids, what would it be?" If someone is bullying you, and you bully them back, then that makes you a bully."
Whenever I draw pictures of people, Nana helps me color them to make them fancy!"
Before them, I didn't realize that I could value someone more than myself."
Seen on 50th Street.
We went to a magic show and there were so much tricks! The magician pulled a rabbit out of his hat! And then he told me to pick a card! And then he banged the card on the rabbit's butt! And then the card completely changed! And then we got to pet the rabbit."
I have a neck injury so I had to tone it down this year."
Do you remember the saddest moment of your life?" Probably sitting at the kitchen table with my dad, an hour after my mother died, realizing we had to figure out what we were going to do for lunch."
I want to be a dog walker when I grow up." What's the hardest part about being a dog walker?" Holding on to the leash."
I want to be a captain in the ESU it's New York's equivalent of a Swat Team. You know how a lot of kids grow up watching cartoons, and dreaming of being super heroes so that they can save people? Well, I never grew out of that." So what's your super power?" I'm good at making contingency plans. Like when Batman made a contingency plan in case any member of the Justice League went rogue." So what's been your greatest contingency plan so far?" I didn't get into the school of my choice, so I'm in community college now."
These experiences were so meaningful to me that I don't want you to soundbite them."
My parents were immigrants from Vietnam. They'd been through a war, and they didn't want their child to go through the same hardships they went through, so they tried to control my life as much as possible. For them, control was love. But I had to move away from it."
I dealt with people all my life, and now I'm burnt out. I just like to be alone. It's more comfortable."
I wasn't lucky enough to have ever found what I wanted to do. Don't get me wrong I did nicely. But I never found my passion."
One time we tried to climb up on a shelf at the mall, and the whole thing came down!"
It's not as bad as people make it sound. Sure, you created a little monster that you have to take care of. But it's a blast."
They ganged up on me and pushed me in a prickly bush."
I probably shouldn't have taken things so seriously." Like what?" Marriage." In what way?" I think I changed too much when I got married. I tried to fit the role too much. I came from a big Italian family, so there was a lot of emphasis on being the "provider.' You know you gotta be the man. Gotta set an example. I guess I always thought that if I kept doing drugs, drinking, and partying, my kids wouldn't have wanted to succeed." So you think should have done more drugs, drank more, and partied more?" Yeah. Probably."
I was a school teacher for all my life, but I had to leave when I went blind. It was tough for me because I'd helped so many other people's kids, and then when my own kids got to high school, I couldn't see enough to help them with their homework. But everything turned out all right though. This one's on the way to join her sister at the University of Albany!"
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Keep your word." What's a time that you didn't keep your word, that you now regret?" When I was younger, I told a friend that I'd go with her to get an abortion. And I never showed up."
You should kiss the ground you walk on if you were born in this country take it from an old man who once had to wear the Star of David on his shirt. There's a safety to living in such a diverse place. It's much more difficult to brainwash a population that is composed of so many different nationalities and so many different viewpoints."
I do social work, focusing on young families. Basically I play and dance with babies."
We were smoking outside one time. And this same car kept driving by, and we thought: "Man! That's weird!' Then we got arrested."
Everything is up in the air right now. My dog just died. My car just got hit. And I might get evicted. All I've got is my health."
Today in microfashion
With how far the younger generation has gotten off track, there's a lot of grandparents like me that sit around and worry about their grandbabies and great grandbabies."
This is getting too personal."
What do you feel most guilty about?" When things weren't going well, I used to get angry at the wrong people for the wrong reasons. A lot of times, I'd take my anger at a situation and scatter it on my wife and kids."
I got a Master's degree in acting and now I'm working as a waitress." What's the toughest part about being an actress?" There's a million of us."
Seen in Central Park
What's the sexiest thing about being a library technical assistant?" Hmmm I don't know. But we did find a collection of 1960's X-rated magazines in the microfilm department."
I'm studying to be a librarian."
What's the sexiest part about being a librarian?"

I'd say the width of our knowledge. The rest of academia seems to have a rather specific focal point, whereas librarians need to know enough to serve as a guide for researchers of every discipline."
He just found it."
I've taken thousands of photos of people in New York, and I find out a little bit about" I'm Hustle Man! That's all you need to know."
I'm waiting for her bus to come. You know those things you took for granted when you were a kid? Like going on field trips and riding the bus? All those simple things make me nervous as a parent. I'm not off my guard until she's in my arms. If she's five minutes late, I start to get nervous."
There's a principle in game theory known as min-maxing, meaning that in any given system, behaviors will evolve that maximize gain for minimum effort. This means that a lot of thought has to be put in to bulletproofing a new system against min-maxing. Take the internet, for example. The designers of the internet thought it was going to be this wonderful open community. They were expecting it to be nothing but unicorns shitting rainbows. But in come the min-maxers with their spam, bot nets, and viruses."
These two were acting like complete teenagers. When I walked up, she was nuzzling her head against his shoulder. She giggled the entire time I talked with them, while he kept a big goofy grin on his face. And whenever I asked about their relationship, she clutched his arm, looked at him just like this, giggled, then said: We're not telling!"
I just want to be financially independent while I'm still young enough to enjoy it." Are you close?" Well, I've still got two daughters that need to go to college. So no."
I ran away when I was 12 because my dad never fed me. I'd see other kids walking with their parents, and they seemed happy, so I figured things weren't normal with me. The cops picked me up as I was about to cross the George Washington Bridge, and I've been in foster care ever since."
She made me take ballet."
If I had paid them more attention, they would feel toward me now, how I should have felt toward them then."
The mom was standing next to me, and while I was taking the photo, she said: My husband is loving this right now. He tried to get me to wear the same thing, but I said "hell no.'"
A girl at work asked me if "cutting the rug' was the same as 'carpet munching.'"
It's up to you, mother. He says he's gonna put it on The Web."
What's surprised you most about being a parent?" The love."
Seen from 9th Ave.
Do you remember the angriest you've ever been?" The day I finally got my mom to stop hitting me."
Everyone thinks I'm anti-social just because I want to stay sober."
His owner told me that according to a Native American myth, dogs with different colored eyes can see both heaven and earth.
I'm proud of how much he's growing, and I'm just doing my best to explain it all. Recently we've been learning that people don't always do what they say they're going to do."
Two pigeons had sex on my shoulder yesterday!"
I just need to figure out what's enough." How do you do that?" Not sure. That's why I'm in therapy."
I teach fourth grade in Harlem." What's your greatest struggle as a teacher?" I worry a lot about the kids." Why's that?" Not all the kids. Just the ones that aren't on the "college track.' Many of them just don't have a culture of expectation at home, and it's hard work to lift yourself out of an underprivileged situation. I actually just finished going to a trombone recital for a former student of mine. I used to coach him in hockey on weekends. He'd practice with me from 4 AM to 6 AM. Then he'd go practice trombone from 8 to 10. He did all this just so he could get into a good high school. That's what it takes, really. Hard to do without a culture of expectation."
Seen at Lincoln Center
Seen in Washington Square Park.
I'm happier than a pig in shit."
Basketball got me out of trouble, and in trouble." How do you mean?" It kept me off the streets, but it also kept me from focusing on school."
This was so funny. I was walking home last night, when I noticed someone waving at me from the window of a cab. The cab was stopped at a red light, so I walked up to the window to say "hello.' It was a mother and daughter.I just wanted to say 'hi,' said the daughter, timidly. I reached in and shook her hand. Meanwhile, the mother was frantically pulling cash out of her purse and handing it to the driver.She's shy!"  said the mother. But I'm not! My daughter loves your website, and we're getting out of this cab right now so we can talk to you!"
For the longest time, I was so focused on being deaf in my left ear, that I almost forgot my other ear was perfectly fine."
What's your greatest fear?" Dying before I've gotten out of The Matrix."
Why do you have a sword?" Because I'm a knight."
I probably shouldn't talk about my girlfriend. She'd get pretty upset."
The best thing my father ever did for me was choose my godfather."
I'm going to puppet class." I didn't know there were puppet classes." I didn't either. Until I googled it."
I'm having problem with job. They want to see papers."
What do you want most for her?" Before you ask that, you must know what we want for ourselves. Sure we want her to be happy. And to be successful. But for us, above all, it is about serving God."
She's always surprising me with words that I didn't know she knew. A few days ago, I told her to put on a dress. She said: "That's not a dress. It's an outfit!'"
Today in microfashion
I'm giving a presentation tomorrow on the experience of African American males growing up in America." What's the thesis?" Hundreds of interviews have been conducted, and we've found that not only do most African American males fail to acknowledge institutional racism, they mainly tend to blame themselves for their failures. They say things like they didn't work hard enough, or made too many mistakes. They don't understand that they weren't afforded the same opportunities."
I'm studying music therapy. I just finished observing a music program for children with disabilities, and I'm taking notes." So what's something you observed?" Many of the children had some form of autism. And it seemed that playing music together gave them the satisfaction of contributing to a group and forming relationships, without the pressure of having to speak or maintain eye contact."
What's your favorite thing to do with mom?" Play chess." What's the hardest part about playing chess?" That I don't know how to play."
Pretty much the exact same time we signed a deal for the HONY book, we began working on a HONY kids' book too. Over the last couple years, it went through a few different concepts and rewrites, until we ended up with the treasure that is LITTLE HUMANS. The final product ended up being a short narrative about what it means to be a little human. On each page there is a kid portrait which illustrates each aspect of little humanity. (Several of the photos have not been posted to the blog, which required a lot of self-restraint, because I especially love the kid posts.) 
Little Humans was so fun to write, I'm really proud of it, and am really excited for everyone to see it. I must also disclose that my girlfriend brought instrumental kid-knowledge to the table, gathered from years of intensive babysitting. 
The book is for ages 2 to 7, and will be released on October 7th. You can preorder it here:
AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE:
BREAKING NATURE NEWS: Yesterday I was fortunate enough to snag the only existing photograph of an ultra-rare Long Island Jungle Leopard. Seen here in a mating ritual.
We builded a contraption once!"
Stumbled upon a pretty epic bridal party at the Brooklyn Botanic Gardens this afternoon.
Mom said: Tell him something that makes you special. She said: I have a fake eye because I had cancer."
I want to make cars." What's the best part about making cars?" Seeing how fast they go." What's the hardest part about making cars?" Keeping them from exploding."
Who are the flowers for?" Myself." What's your favorite thing about yourself?" I guess I always try to be honest." What's a time you weren't as honest as you'd have liked?" It took me too long to come out of the closet." Why's that?" I guess I just didn't know for sure." And when did you settle on it?" Honestly, when society's expectation is that you're straight, I think you constantly have to settle on it."
I once threw a pen at a kid's head for raising his hand in class and saying that PMS should disqualify women from leadership positions."
I'm having trouble dealing with society." What aspect of society?" The whole thing."
The team lost 11-2." Who's fault was it?" Definitely not ours. They never put us in the game."
Today in microfashion
One day a crazy looking homeless guy came to the door, and we were about to close the door on him, but my mother saw him and shouted: "Hey Eugene!' She knew his name! Then she ran around the kitchen putting all sorts of food into tupperware, and brought it out to him. After he left, we asked my mom why she gave him so much food. She told us: 'You never know how Jesus is going to look when he shows up.' She was always saying that it was a spiritual thing. Then you know what happened? Two months later, that same man showed up on the door step, clean shaven, and wearing a suit. And he had an envelope with money for my mother. 'Ms. Rosa always believed in me,' he said. I'll never forget it! Eugene was his name."
I didn't get married until I was 50. I think it finally happened because I stopped thinking it was possible." How do you mean?" Before I gave up, I was putting so much pressure on myself that I'd immediately be considering and measuring every man I'd meet. It's not natural to begin a relationship with such a long term view. When I met my husband, I wasn't looking past that afternoon."
It's not unapproachability. It's focus."
The wisdom that I wasn't meant to be a teacher only came through sheer exhaustion."
I wish I hadn't focused on my career so much when my kids were young. I missed out on some key moments." What was your thought process at the time?" I told myself that I was spending time away from them in order to improve their circumstances."
I worked at the same cafe for 28 years, but it just went out of business, so I had to find new work. Before it was like I had a family. I saw the same people every day. But now I just have a job. One day you lose something, and you say: "Oh my God. I was happy. And I didn't even know it.'"
When my daughter was born, my grandfather was dying of cancer in the same hospital. They told me they showed him a picture of her on a phone, and he started crying. They were going to wrap her up and bring her to him the next morning, but he died that afternoon."
It's difficult to not grow too attached when you're a nanny. Not only are you bonding with the children, but you're doing it in a home environment. It's hard to not feel like family. But after crying so hard when I left my first family, I told myself I'd never grow that attached again." How do you do accomplish that?" You just have to constantly remind yourself that you're an employee."
I have too much energy. I'm learning to channel it instead of letting it burn me." How does it burn you?" It can keep me from focusing. It causes me to think about a million things at once." Are you manic?" Yes." Do you take medicine?" No. I just wear a weight vest under my clothes while I'm working, then after work I run until the batteries are done."
I'm a pathologist, which means that I run the lab, and I'm continually shocked by all the unnecessary lab work that comes my way. Doctors have to find something wrong with you, because preventative measures aren't sexy. They know that you're more likely to appreciate them if they tell you something's wrong, than if they tell you to stop drinking 40 oz sodas."
I want to design rocket engines." What's one way that you think rockets will change the world that people don't currently anticipate?" Space mining. Sunlight in particular. Most people think of space as being very cold, but if you step out of your spacesuit into direct sunlight, your blood will boil. On earth, the energy of the sun is largely absorbed by the atmosphere. So in space, solar panels could be much more effective."
Our first date was at TGI Fridays. We went there again on our 8th anniversary, but it wasn't as glamorous as we remembered."
Do you remember the time you felt most sad?" When mom and dad separated." Why did mom and dad separate?" Because they kept screaming on each other."
Do you remember the most frightened you've ever been?" When I thought I'd have to raise my son alone. His father and I weren't getting along." Sounds like you worked things out with the father?" No. The fear just went away when I learned I could do it on my own."
He just tried to get his tennis ball off the roof by telling the doorman it was signed by Roger Federer."
What's your greatest struggle right now?" Dining with my daughter." Dining with your daughter?" She has an eating disorder. So she avoids every situation that involves eating with the family."
Is this your dad?" He's my dad-ish." What does dad-ish mean?"

 it means her mother and I have a mortgage."
I had a really bad shrink once. He got me to quit my job by convincing me that my back pain was caused by a subconscious desire to spend more time with my kids. Then he tried to sexually assault me."
My dad lived in Newark, so he'd pick me up on the weekends and I'd go stay with him. But since he didn't really get along with my mom, he'd never come over to the house. Whenever his train arrived, he'd just call and I'd go to the station to meet him. But one weekend he was three hours late. I tried to call his phone but he didn't pick up, so I assumed he wasn't coming and left to see a movie with my friends. I guess his train showed up a few minutes later. Because my mom said he called as soon as I left. When I finally got in touch with him, we got in a big fight. He was mad that I'd gone to see the movie. He said I didn't care about him or love him. That was on Saturday. Late Sunday night, I got up to go the bathroom, and found my stepdad and mom crying in the kitchen. They couldn't even tell me he'd been murdered. They just said that "something happened to someone in Jersey.' I asked if it was my aunt. Then my cousins. Then my grandma. And my mom just kept shaking her head. I went down the entire list of people in Jersey before getting to my dad. And with each name I said, I got more and more scared, cause I knew what had happened."
He sings to each of his kids individually when it's time for them to go to bed."
I'm going to be a basketball player. Or a taxation lawyer."
I went to a rural high school in Pennsylvania. Nobody from my town had gone to an Ivy League school in 20 years. So when I got accepted to MIT, I had this feeling of being so far behind everyone else. I chose to major in Chemistry, because I felt that was my best chance of keeping up. Don't get me wrong, I love Chemistry, but I think I'd have been a great doctor."
After years of telling my son not to drive drunk, I drove home drunk one night. Boy did he let me have it. He screamed at me for hours, and even called my girlfriend."
Today in microfashion
What do you feel most guilty about?" Being a dick to my parents."
Today in microfashion
I'm an opera singer." What's the highest note you can hit?" An F Sharp." What does that sound like?"
I'm in pretty big trouble. We were leaving for a party, and my mom found a liter of vodka in my backpack. She pulled it out and smiled. Not a normal smile. A creepy smile. I left as fast as possible."
There's this giant cathedral in Cologne that survived the Allied bombings of World War II. All the other buildings around it were destroyed. One time I was super high on E and mushrooms, so I decide to drop in. The cathedral is made of black marble and the walls are stained with soot, so it was really creepy. On top of that, the place was packed with people, and there was a priest at the altar shouting angrily in German. I was like: "Oh. My. God.'"


What was the happiest moment of your life?" When Mr. Carson helps me with my writing." What's the hardest part about writing?" The spaces and the dents and you have to start with a capital. But if you do a good job Mr. Carson lets you play with toys."
We met on OKCupid three months ago." What were your usernames?" MiriamsDad." SallyForth13"
I run a cloud computing business. It's 24/7 of demanding decisions. It's completely absorbing and can take your soul if you aren't careful. It's a great business. But there's more to life than business."
My three year old daughter has figured out how to unlock my phone. Now she's always calling people and saying "hello' over and over."
Teachable Moment
Dad let go of her hand, but she never let go of dad's hand.
How many likes do you think we'll get?" That's gonna depend on the photo."
He loves the park more than anything in the world, and he's got all kinds of tricks to stay as long as possible. When he knows we're walking home, he sidles up to the nearest stranger, and as soon as he has their attention, he flops on his back."
It was an unhealthy relationship. The last thing he said was that he'd kill himself if I left him, but I just kept walking. I saw him a couple weeks ago, actually." Still alive?" Still alive."
I'm a tour guide." What's your greatest strength as a guide?" Have you ever seen the movie Kate and Leopold?" I can't say I have." Well, it's no masterpiece. But there's this one scene when Hugh Jackman goes back in time, and he witnesses the opening of the Brooklyn Bridge. Then he's transported back to present day, and he sees the bridge is still standing, and he shouts: "It's a miracle!' And a nearby hotdog vendor says: 'No it's not, it's a bridge.' So what I'm trying to say is, I'm Hugh Jackman. And not the hot dog vendor."
My wife asked me if she could go on tour with Engelbert Humperdinck as a backup singer. We had four kids at the time, but I told her: "If I say 'no,' you'll never forgive me. So go ahead.' So she went, and she never came back."
I don't understand my feelings. Sometimes I feel sad and I don't know why. Then sometimes I feel silly, and I don't know why either. Now I feel "wow,' because this is my very first interview."
He's an electrical engineer, and when he's working, he's always so serious and focused. But when he's dancing, he just glows."  that's probably more information than he needs."
I have trouble fully committing to things I'm good at." Why do you think that is?" The Smoke."
I'm pretty sure I have psychic abilities. I got ripped off really badly by a con artist one time. Then years later, on a hunch, I walked over to the jail to see if he'd ever gotten arrested. Not only was he there, but I showed up just in time to have a say in his parole proceedings. Plus I'm really good at guessing what time it is."
I have stage 3 melanoma, which puts me at a 48% chance of survival over the next 5 years. However, I have the ability to speed read very technical material, so I went to the library at Duke and read over 800 papers on melanoma, which doctors just don't have the time to read. I found one very promising study that suggests chloro quinine, combined with the deprivation of a certain amino acid, has shrunk tumors in mice to almost nothing."
You've got to watch what you say around her. She's 4 going on 104."
After my divorce, I couldn't sleep. I tried everything. I ended up going to a skating rink every night, where I'd skate until I was unconscious. I eventually got so good that I turned semi-pro. I was actually all set to tour with Cher as part of her show, but then the bottom fell out of roller skating."
They say it's gonna snow tomorrow. Well I just got a bottle of whiskey. So let it fucking snow."
My parents separated, then my dad got custody. My mom kidnapped us from school one day and brought us to Rhode Island, where we bounced around between homeless shelters for about a year. Then one day we were at the grocery store, and the police came and arrested our mom, and took us back to our dad."
Hold on. Let me fix my posture so my mom doesn't worry."
I used to have really bad social anxiety. I'd be so afraid of saying something awkward and uninteresting, I'd stand on the perimeter of conversations and not say a thing. Which ironically came across as awkward and uninteresting."
My boss is being a real putz." I probably shouldn't write that." Write it."
We met when she came into a thrift store where I worked. We both loved clothes and dancing. She's my best friend, my roommate, and my wife. I'm not even joking, we've been legally married for 14 years."
I want to be a scientist." What's the best part of being a scientist?" Discovering things." What do you want to discover the most?" King Cobras."
He's really patient." When's a time that you really appreciated his patience?" When my mother came to stay with us."
We don't argue too much. A little over money, but that's about it. He's a spender, I'm a saver." What's something he spends money on that drives you crazy?" He loves leather luggage. Who the hell needs leather luggage?"
I think society's emphasis on family forces us into relationships that are otherwise unhealthy. Sure, a long time ago, when people lived miles from civilization, family was all you had. There was a very practical purpose to sticking together. But now I have six million people in my backyard. Why should I be wasting time with someone I don't like just because they have the same last name as me?"
When I started, these rocks were bathed in light. Now they're just shadowy masses. So I have to decide how I want to remember them."
We met on Craigslist. He put up an ad for a tattooed girl with a soft heart. When he came to pick me up the first time, he got out and leaned against his truck with his arms crossed, trying to look like a bad ass."
Humans do everything they can to try to forget they are animals. We create these institutions and customs that deny our animal nature. Take our relationships with our parents, for example. No other animal keeps a relationship with its parents after its been raised. It's not natural. Yet we insist, because we think that's what makes us human. Think of the people you know. Are they happy when they go visit their parents? Is it something they naturally want to do? No. They bitch about it. But then they go anyway. Because that's what makes them feel human."
Seen on the subway.
If you could give one piece of advice to yourself at the age of eighteen, what would it be?" When I was eighteen, I was dating a red head, a Puerto Rican, and an Asian. So I'd say "keep on!'"
What's the most frightened you've ever been?" I was camping alone one night. And something kept snorting at my tent. It was terrifying. Found out the next morning it was a baby deer."
I chipped my tooth today!" What happened?" I was wrestling with my older brother." Who won?" He forfeited after he chipped my tooth."
She actually pulled up a video of the incident on her phone. Sure enough, she chips her tooth, then spends the next 30 seconds trying to convince her panicked brother that it's not a big deal.
BREAKING: Young entrepreneurs discovered on Lefferts Place, between Classon and Grand. By employing aggressively low price points, these titans of industry have competitively positioned themselves in the nail painting industry. However, customers aren't coming,"  most likely due to the flagging economy and unrest in Eastern Europe. However, there is still time for things to turn around. The business will remain open until 6 PM, if it's OK with Grandma."
I never knew my father. But my mom bought me my first muscle car when I was 14."
What's the secret to selling cookies?" Smiling."
I'm constantly putting a lot more in than I'm getting out. If I was a restaurant, I'd close my doors. But I can't close my doors, because I'm an artist."
I think I'm happiest when I'm broke." Why's that?" Because I can always find a good meal. But when I'm broke, I can't afford to do the things I shouldn't be doing."
How much money is this going to cost me?"
I study insects." What's your favorite insect?" The honeybee." Tell me something interesting about the honeybee. Honeybees will leave their hive once a year to mate. Even though the queen has plenty of males in her own hive, she will only mate with the males of another hive, which insures genetic variation. Honeybees can also sense the magnetic field of the earth, meaning they can fly several kilometers from their hive and find their way back home."
Looking back, I probably should have gotten more angry after the first marijuana arrest. I probably should have put my foot down. Instead, I said: "Don't worry. I'll call a lawyer. We'll get this straightened out.' I never got angry, because I never wanted him to be angry with me."
I was Defensive Player of the Year."
I was just talking yesterday about the inspirational thing I was going to say if I ran into you!" Well, what is it?" I haven't thought of it yet!"
I try to always be positive." When did you find it most difficult to be positive?" My forties." What happened then?" Struggles in the family people close to me started dying." And so how'd you regain your positivity?" I had a faith. And I returned to it."
If my battery wasn't low, I'd pop this thing back on two wheels right now."
I remember when I was 16, I was playing one of my first shows with my band. Everything was going horribly, and this was in Ireland, so people were throwing vegetables at us. So I said into the microphone: "We're having difficulties right now, we'll be right back.' And when I walked off the stage, my dad was standing there. And instead of commenting on the show, he said: 'Great job. You couldn't have made a more professional exit.'"
What do you want to be when you grow up?" Something that's sort of interesting, not too hard, and pays pretty well."
They said I hit a woman. I didn't hit a woman."
Not gonna happen.
My mother raised eighteen children on a farm in western Ireland. I'm having trouble raising two."
What's the most unmasculine thing you've ever done?" I had to pick up some feminine products at the store a couple weeks ago."
There are a lot of "Irish' pubs in America, but they just don't have the 'craic.' You know the word 'craic,' don't you? Craic is a special fun atmosphere that Irish people can produce. Some Irish people have more craic than others. There are all kinds of craic. There's good craic, mighty craic, savage craic, and deadly craic. Then there are boring people who have no fun inside of them. We call that minus craic."
Seen on 5th Avenue
I'm really blessed, partner."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" In every situation, choose love." When is it most difficult to choose love?" When it involves someone close to you."
The Universe gave him to me." What's his name?" Black Mamba."
What's your greatest struggle right now?" Keeping my children in my life." If you could change one decision you've made, what would it be?" All the decisions which broke up my family." What decision in particular?" The decision to keep drinking."
It's the last line of the poem." What does it mean?" I'm not sure lines of poems can be directly translated."
I had an intense mushroom trip one time where I realized that I was trying to be a lot of things that I didn't want to be. I realized that I liked the idea of my life more than my life. So I dumped my boyfriend, dropped out of school, and went to work on organic farms."
I don't want to be turned into a caricature. I'm sorry, I don't mean to be combative, but one thousand straight people have asked for my photo this week. It's been a long week, girlfriend."
He has deer on his bedsheets."
I'm just doodling." Who's the message aimed at?" Everyone back home."
I'm in the Bible."
After my stepfather cheated on her, my mother really put us through hell. She tried to slit her wrists several different times. She'd wait until she was almost dead, then call the kids in the room and tell them to call the ambulance. There were eight kids, and I think it wounded all of us in a different way."
It started around 6th grade. I started to notice that when I'd talk to certain girls, my heart would start beating faster, and I'd get butterflies in my stomach. And that never happened with guys."
I've had a couple loves. One of them died. And the other left me for another man." Which hurt more?" If I was being absolutely honest, the second one."
It constantly depresses the shit out of me that we have to die."
I'm leaving for Vegas in the morning to get married."
Where I grew up, everyone wanted to be the hardest thug. I just want to be an Average Joe. My goal is to get to a place where I can wake up knowing that I'll be fine if I don't make any money today."
When I moved here, I didn't speak any English. I started out washing dishes. Then I moved up to prep. Then one day I asked the cook if I could help make the soup, and he said: "No, the recipes are in English.' But I told him, 'Just show me once, and you'll never have to show me again.' So that's how I started cooking. Now I manage the kitchen. But if my workers ever need help with the dishes, I wash the dishes."
My stepdad was always demanding that I respect him. Yet he didn't respect me at all."
People have problems at home and they take it out on other people. That's why things are bad. And it just goes on and on."
I want to be a singer, a president, and a tennis player." I want to be a president, a teacher, a doctor, and a police."
I don't know what to tell you, man."
I won."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" I'd tell them the same thing I'd tell one person. That if you understand failure, you won't be afraid of it anymore. Failure isn't diving on your face, or hitting rock bottom. That's just being human. You only fail when you decide to not try again. So it's entirely in your control. Once you understand failure, it's impossible to fail."
Do you remember the saddest moment of your life?" When I turned myself into the FBI at the age of 21. I'd committed a stupid crime, and I'd never been arrested before, so I was hiding from the cops. But then they started calling my mom. And she called and asked me to turn myself in. And I had to, cause it was my mom."
My favorite moment is any time that a kid looks at me, and I can tell from the look in his eye that he wants to be a musician. Yesterday I gave a drumstick to a kid with a mohawk, and from the excitement in his face, I could tell that he'd never need drugs and alcohol as long as he could play music."
What's your favorite thing about your mom?" I'm her dad's girlfriend, actually." Oh! What's your favorite thing about dad's girlfriend?" Her impressions of my dad."
My girlfriend's parents are really religious. The first time I met them, they called her later and asked: "Is your new friend struggling with her sexuality?'"
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Don't pick at scabs." What scab have you picked at the most?" Stephanie."
I'm studying intellectual property law." What interests you about that?" I want to allow artists to use technology to distribute their work while still controlling their rights. I want to protect them from big corporations who co-opt their work and who use high powered legal teams to win lawsuits based on technicalities. And it pays well."
People were sending me messages in my head. Then they gave me this medicine. It took away my powers and I feel kinda dead now."
This is our second date, actually." So what happened on the first date?" We went adventure walking. She said she knew of this spooky house, but we got lost for an hour looking for it. Then when we got there it wasn't really how she remembered it, and wasn't very spooky at all. It was a historic landmark, actually." So did you kiss on the first date?" Yeah! We kissed at the spooky house. I kinda felt bad for her because the house wasn't as spooky as she'd claimed. So I kissed her."
I'm from Scotland. I'm here with the band I manage." What's the toughest part about managing a band?" Making sure they're on time, and making sure that they're working on new material." Why is that hard?" Because they like a bit of drink."
I don't mean to preach, but Jesus Christ helped me kick my crack cocaine habit, then blessed me with a window cleaning business."
I decided to leave my life eight months ago. Since then, I've been to Finland with a Latin American ballroom dancing team, toured Sweden with a Greek, met some Canadians in Amsterdam to watch the Olympics, and I'm about to head to Iraq to teach social media to soldiers in war zones."
I'd say my saddest moment was when I got an abortion. But I'm not sure if sad is the right word, because I was young and it was definitely the right decision, but sometimes it still feels like something is missing. Like there was this space that could have been filled by someone, but I chose to leave that space empty. And now there's just a space. Does that make sense?'
I got first place in an imagination contest! I had seven other kids on my team, and adults couldn't help! We had to take a painting, and write a story about it. So we made up a story about a girl who accidentally walks through an old painting and ends up in 1890's France where the painting came from. And once she's there, she can't get back home, because she loses the painting! But then she learns that to get back home, she must make a new painting from the time period she came from!"

I worked in technology for many years, but I got tired of working for The Man. Plus technology has its ups and downs. Chicken is always steady."
Today in microfashion
Do you remember the saddest moment of your life?" When my grandmother died. I was nine. Besides my dad, she was the only one in my family who was like this. And she was the only other person who could give me any perspective on what it was going to be like, and how to handle it."
I'm learning to be more careful with my words. Words that seem meaningless at the time can end up having a lot of power. Seeds that you didn't even intend to plant can fall off you and start growing in people."
Now that homosexuality is going mainstream, the homos are feeling a lot of pressure to fit into the hetero mold. Somehow, embracing the established norms of monogamy and legal marriage makes us feel "more equal.' We're having to ask ourselves just because it's available, should we conform?"
I lost my thumb in a freak playground accident when I was five. I was really insecure about it for the longest time, but eventually I just learned to have a sense of humor about it. Love your blog, by the way. I'd give it one-and-a-half thumbs up."
I work as an assistant editor on films, and I'm trying to figure out how to move up to being an editor." So what's the biggest obstacle to moving forward?" You have a much freer hand with creativity when you're an editor. So the position requires more trust. And there's so much money involved in making a film, it's very hard for a filmmaker to take a chance on somebody who hasn't done it before."
I've been in New York for four years, but I feel like my roots are growing very slowly. I'm very shy. I have trouble initiating conversations. I always joke that I look like Fonzie and feel like Richie Cunningham."
My ex-boyfriend and I took a three month trip through Southeast Asia, but he left me in Vietnam." Oh man, what happened?" Oh, you know I went to Burma, he went to India. I'm emotional, he's a sociopath."
I should have gone to college. But I got a little taste of money with my first job, and never finished school. Now things are tough. My wife got in a car accident, and needs surgery, so it's on me to provide for us financially. We're even having to postpone her surgery until my oldest daughter comes home from college, because I can't take time off to watch the kids."
What's your biggest regret?" I wish I'd joined the Bluegrass singing group in college. I don't think they'd have let me in, but they always seemed to be having so much fun! That's not a good answer, is it?"
I wish I'd looked up to my dad more." How do you mean?" I spent too much time comparing him to other dads in terms of worldly success."
I'm trying to be more patient. I want everything to happen right now, when I know I should be going slow and paying my dues." In what area are you most impatient?" I know I should say "career,' but honestly, I really want to fall in love." How do you pay your dues in love?" You've got to meet a lot of people. You can't just go around saying: 'Hey! You're nice, and attractive. So I love you!'"
He loves to cook and clean. He's a great housewife."
Do you remember the most frightened you've ever been?" When I was 21 and I found out my girlfriend was pregnant." How'd things turn out?" Pretty damn well."
He's wonderful in bed."
I'm not sure I'd recommend that a young person go into law." Why's that?" When I was starting out, it was more of a profession, and your worth was determined by the service you provided. Now it's become more of a business, and your worth is determined by the fee you're able to collect."
We met 48 years ago at a Halloween party." Do you remember the costumes you were wearing?" We were the only two not wearing costumes, actually."
I have a special needs brother who just moved out of the house today. It's the first time I've really been alone. And to be honest, I can't say whether I'm sad or relieved."
I want to be an animal rescuer." Why do you want to rescue animals?" Because they're soft and cuddly."
We'd been having a sort of tacit conversation about it for a couple years. Then one day, his sister, who already knew, was teasing him about having a crush on a boy at school. And I heard him say: "Well, maybe it's true!' So I said: 'Son, we've never really talked about this. Are you gay?' And even though he was 6'4" , he came over to me, curled up in my lap and just sobbed and sobbed. It was one of the most beautiful moments of my life, actually.
We dated in high school, but just recently got back together." What happened in high school?" I sort of disappeared on him. I had to leave school suddenly because I was pregnant." But he wasn't the father?" No." So where's the dad now?" I'm not going to be the kind of mom who makes her daughter's dad out to be a monster, but I eventually decided that it wasn't my job to force anybody to be a father." Tell me one thing that you weren't taught that you're going to teach your daughter." That just because you love someone, doesn't mean they can make you happy. And you should never compromise with your happiness." So what did you compromise?" I compromised everything about myself to try to keep my family together."
I wish I'd partied a little less. People always say "be true to yourself.' But that's misleading, because there are two selves. There's your short term self, and there's your long term self. And if you're only true to your short term self, your long term self slowly decays."
I'm writing a novella that I'm hoping to get published." What's it about?" It's about these two kids from Seattle, who sneak out of the house early in the morning and take a 5 AM bus to Portland." What happens after that?" I don't know. But that's kind of the point."
It took me getting into a lot of fights before I was diagnosed with PTSD. I have something called "hypervigilance.' I get really nervous around people. Especially people from the Middle East." What were some traumatic things that happened to you?" I was in a vehicle when a mortar round exploded in front of us, and we fell into the crater and got trapped. There was a burning oil rig near us, so it was like being in a microwave. And we couldn't get out. And I also saw a lot of hanky shit. Mostly from our side. Everyone was really revved up from 9/11. We did a lot of bad things. I saw decapitations, and that was our guys doing it." What happened?" We were supposed to bring POW's back to the base. But instead we gave them a cigarette to calm them down, and told them to get on their knees. One of our guys was 240 lbs, and he'd taken this shovel we'd been issued, and he'd sharpened one of the sides until it was like an axe, and he could take off somebody's head with two hits." How many times did you see that happen?" Three."
I'm doing a photo project on women who wear the hijab in creative ways. My thought is that challenges and restrictions make us more creative."
You can see the results of her project here: 
I just organized a meet-up for fans of my favorite webcomic, Homestuck." Do you have any interest in writing comics?" My sister and I have tossed around a few ideas." What's one of your ideas?" What if Spiderman. went to Comic Con?"
Both of my parents were very successful. So I was taught a lot about success growing up, but I wasn't taught a lot about happiness. For example, I realized recently that I don't have any photographs with my friends from college. Are you saying you didn't have any moments in college worth photographing?" No, there were plenty of moments. But I never felt the need to capture them. I was so busy trying to be the best, I never really paused to appreciate what I had."
I've got some woman issues. I'm trying to get them out."
I don't have much of a paternal instinct. I mean, I like kids, but only if I can hand them back to their parents and go about my business."
I try to write poems and short stories." What about?" Just weird situations. What kind of situations?" Disintegrating friendships, and things like that." So why do friendships disintegrate?" I just think that people's interests change. And relationships have to be built on some sort of commonality. So once that common ground is lost, it's very difficult to get it back."
I was a trader for most of my life. At one point I was the Vice Chairman of the New York Mercantile Exchange. But instead of retiring, I decided to go back to school and get a degree in social work. Because I figured God wasn't going to care much about my golf handicap. But being an older student sort of turns your whole world upside down. Last month, I worked on a project with a kid that I used to coach in basketball."
It takes a hell of a lot of pills to keep me going."
I'm a dancer." Let's see a dance move." Not right now." You're not a dancer."
I'm not too emotional of a guy. People say I have a good heart, but they're wrong. I have principles. The heart is a fickle thing. There's no way I can love everybody. So I'm not even going to try. But I can respect everyone whether I love them or not. And that I try to do."
Let me tell you what's happening to me. I'm on the PTA at my child's school, the Secondary School of Journalism in Park Slope. I'm currently advocating on behalf of my child, and seventeen other children whose parents don't speak English. These kids are from Ecuador, Peru, El Salvador, Dominican Republic, everywhere. These kids have all done very well on their Regent's exams I'm talking 90/95th percentile. Very smart kids. They were on their way toward qualifying for an Advanced Regents government scholarship,that would give their parents badly needed money to help in their education. But the fine print of that scholarship says the children need three full years of a foreign language. 
And the principal at the school FIRED the Spanish teacher. She is not hiring another foreign language teacher for an entire year, effectively disqualifying all these kids from that scholarship they need. When we try to talk with her about it, she acts like she doesn't owe us an explanation. When we try to call the Board of Education, they tell us to put it in writing. They get us all excited. They have us think if we write a nice letter, and use good grammar, and use all the correct punctuation, something will happen. Meanwhile another year passes, and nothing. And the kids don't get their scholarship. You know something like this would never happen at a nice Manhattan school like Stuyvesant.
We've got a new mayor and a new chancellor. So we aren't blaming them. But they need to know how impossible they've made it to help our kids. Trying to get something fixed in these schools is like praying to some false God. You call and email hoping that God is listening, and nothing happens. Meanwhile the kids suffer. All these parents that I'm representing are good, simple people. They say: "Don't worry Annette, God is going to fix it. God will make it right.' I love them. And I love God. But I tell them: 'God won't fix it! We've got to fix it!'"


It ain't easy.
Before the chemo, I had this long, beautiful hair that everyone was always commenting on. But when we first met, he walked up to me and said: "Has anyone ever told you that you have the most beautiful smile?'"
A coworker asked for my number the other day. My friends overheard and said: "He must have a thing for Indians.' I was like, 'Or maybe I'm just really fucking cool.'"
Do you mind if I take your photograph? I run a popular website called" I don't give a damn!"
If you could give one piece of advice to other kids, what would it be?" God is real and he can do miracles."
I'm taking a puddlegram."
The army stationed me down South when I was younger, and I couldn't even use the same bathroom as white people. But things have changed so much. The younger generation isn't nearly as racist. I've been sitting here for fifty years. So much has changed. This neighborhood used to be all black. A white person couldn't even walk down this street. All the races kept to themselves. Now you've got Indians talking to Pakistanis, blacks talking to whites, everybody is here and learning from each other's cultures. I've been sitting here for 50 years. Things are getting better."
My happiest moments probably involve anything that invokes childhood. Can you give me an example?" My cab driver and I missed a turn yesterday because we were swapping pictures of our cats."
I've climbed over 100 mountains. For some reason, I just like to get on top of things." Why do you think that is?" I think it's because climbing forces me to rely on myself. In the city, anything I need is a phone call away. When I'm climbing, I've got to figure it out on my own."
With all the good it's brought, technology is destroying our communication skills especially the ability to listen. The older generation can still listen, but many of the youngsters can't even look you in the eye while you speak. If they aren't looking at their mobiles, they're looking over your shoulder or glancing around the room." Why is verbal communication more important than communication through a device?" Because there's only so much you can learn from your Facebook friends."
Adults always say "you're too young to understand.' Well, if they don't tell us, how do they know we don't understand?"
If you were to give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Well, if you'd asked me a week ago, I'd say: "pay it forward.' Now I'd say 'be careful.'"
I used to be 260 lbs." What triggered the change?" I think it just came from me being a competitive guy. My brother used to tease me and call me "fat boy.' So I was like, 'Fuck you. I'm not fat. I'm a skinny guy in a fat body.'"
I was always made to feel like I'd be successful because I always did my homework. I wish I'd spent more time putting energy into things that came from myself."
I'm trying to find money for African start-ups. But I'm much too African for this cold weather." What sort of start-ups?" Most of them combine agriculture and mobile technology." How do those two things go together?" Africa is is an interesting case because it skipped the PC age and went straight to mobile. The economy is still largely based on agriculture, and farmers are beginning to use mobile technology to keep track of weather updates, market prices, and improved farming techniques."
Who do you love most in this world?" God." When did you find it most difficult to love God?" Childhood." Why during childhood?" Because I always wondered why things happened to me." How long did you wonder why?" Until I found God, then I knew why." Why?" Because people aren't bad, they're sick. And sick people do bad things."
I asked what he wanted to be when he grew up. He screamed: A benny! What's a benny?"  I asked.

That's his name,"  said his mom.
She was collecting rocks.
Do you remember the happiest moment of your life?" Impossible to pick one moment." Do you remember the saddest moment of your life?" Impossible to pick one moment." Do you remember the time you felt most afraid?" When my ex-girlfriend's brother tried to kill me."
I'm a feminist. So if a woman and I are going for the last empty seat on the subway, I'm not holding back."
I just got my eyes dilated, so you look like a huge blob right now."
You want to photograph me eating chicken?" Yep." Well, if I let you, I need you to help me deliver a message." What's that?" I work at this library. And before that, I was coming here for twenty years. It's my favorite place in the world. As many people know, the main reading room of this library is supported by seven floors of books, which contain one of the greatest research collections in the world. Recently, the library administration has decided to rip out this collection, send the books to New Jersey, and use the space for a lending library. As part of the consolidation, they are going to close down the Mid-Manhattan Library Branch as well as the Science, Industry, and Business Library. When everything is finished, one of the greatest research libraries in the world will become a glorified internet cafe. Now read that back to me."
You photograph normal people on the street? I go to photography museums, so trust me, if you want to be successful, you must take crazier photos than this. Try photos with naked people."
She's stubborn, which I love. Because I like a challenge." When's the first time you realized she was stubborn?" We'd just graduated from college, and we were looking for jobs. She had some offers, but she said she wasn't going to accept anything less than $35,000. That was a lot of money back in 1996. So I kept telling her: "Don't be greedy. You don't have any experience yet. Start small and work up.' But she wouldn't budge. And of course, she ended up getting exactly what she wanted."
When I get really angry, I start crying. It sucks. Everyone else gets to yell and be scary. I have to be like: "No! I don't want a tissue! Quit comforting me! I'm angry, I swear!'"
I asked for her portrait, and she struck a pose. Then I said: Ok, now let's do a regular one."  So she struck another pose.
I found this guitar on the sidewalk last night. But my girlfriend thinks it has bedbugs. So I've got to play outside."
I'm trying to figure out what direction I should be moving in." What direction are you currently moving in?" I'm not sure I'm moving."

The happiest moment of my life was when my daughter was born. The second happiest moment was when I made this jacket."
I had a couple of plans, I felt like my life was going uphill. But by the time I was nineteen, my son was here."
What's your favorite thing about being a grandmother?" Laughing." What's the most she's ever made you laugh?" She just loves using her big words. Everything to her is "beeaaauuutttiiiful' or 'woooonnnddddeeerrful' or 'faaaannntttaaasstic.'"
I grew up in the Bahamas. When I was young, I worked in a hotel where all the old stars used to come. I served Frank Sinatra, Sammy Davis Jr., Yul Brenner you name it. One time I brought Lee Marvin room service, and he tipped me with a pair of 14 carat gold cufflinks."
The HONY Book just quietly spent its 18th consecutive week on the NYT bestseller list. This feat was achieved by clinging to the bottom of the list like a frightened barnacle, while the whales battle it out for the top spots. Anyway, it's been several weeks since I mentioned the book on the blog. (Hope you noticed, I try.) So for all you newcomers: there's a HONY book. It's freaking awesome. And it's been dominating the absolute bottom of the bestseller list. Like a barnacle. 
AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND:
He gave me this suit for free, this jacket for ten dollars, and these shoes for ten dollars." Who did?" God!"
What was the happiest moment of your life?" When I graduated from basic training in the Air Force." What was the toughest part of basic training?" Probably just putting mind over matter. Some people take it too personally when they're getting yelled at. You have to take a step back and say: "It's part of the training. These people don't know me.'"
I want to be a history writer. The challenge with writing about history is finding the right mix of artistry and facts. If you only write facts, it's way too dull. History can be very poetic." What do you think is the most poetic thing about history?" One theme is the struggle of man against nature. There's the belief that the further man gets from nature, the more civilized he becomes. Cities are the culmination of this idea, with all the art and intellectual traditions that have come out of cities." Do you believe that man becomes more civilized the further he gets from nature?" No. Because no matter what you build around you, you can't escape your ape nature. Look at Nazi Germany. All their amazing technology and buildings were put in service of their most uncivilized instincts."
What was the happiest moment of your life." My first day of school." Why was that?" Because I got to meet new people." Who was the best person you met?" My teachers."
What's the most frightened you've ever been?" When a German shell exploded near me and shot a fragment through my chest."
We're gay refugees from Iran."
I used to be 425 lbs. Now I work for a nonprofit that promotes physical activity and nutrition in schools." What's one piece of nutrition advice?" Here's what I tell the kids: "If you can't pronounce the ingredients on the label, you shouldn't be eating it.'"
He tickles the shit out of me. I'm so ticklish, even the thought of being tickled makes me start laughing. If I'm ever being overly bossy or sarcastic, he'll just start wiggling his index finger in the air, and I'll lose it."
I'm examining my life and trying to figure out where to place my bets." What's the worst bet you've ever made?" That would be a relationship." What happened?" I entered into a relationship with a con artist. The thing is I'm normally very methodical and calculated about things, but I let my desire for companionship override my logic, and I let myself be blinded. He used the pretense of a relationship to gather information about me, and by the time I figured out what was going on, he'd already stolen about $30,000 from me. It also affected my future relationships, of course. You always want to enter a relationship from a position of trust, and I have a hard time doing that now."
She's clumsy. We were talking about school earlier and she just fell off the bed." Well, she's obsessed with Justin Bieber. She's got like six posters hanging in her room."
What's your greatest fear?" Getting sliced in half but still being alive. I saw that on the internet once. It looks awful."
We were friends, and then he sent this other friend, to see if I wanted to be more than friends, but even after that we just stayed friends, but then we became more than friends."
You learn a lot of things being the quiet one. And at some point, you start to think: "I feel like I can lead people.' But then you say: 'But who would follow me? I'm just the quiet one.'"
Both my parents died when I was fifteen. So I knew early that I needed to learn how to make it on my own. So when it came time to go to college, I took a bunch of small pieces of paper and wrote down every state where I didn't know a single person. Then I shuffled them up, and picked out Michigan. Then I got on google and typed: "cross country, advertising, Michigan, university.' And that's how I ended up choosing my school."
I'm writing a five page paper on The Modern African Woman." Tell me something about The Modern African Woman." There's actually no such thing. The "African Woman' is a misnomer. Africa has hundreds of ethnic groups and communities, each with their own customs, traditions, and ideas."
I know this isn't going to be a popular opinion, but I'm gay, and I don't think there's nearly as much discrimination as people claim. Don't get me wrong, I've experienced discrimination. But it hasn't been a huge factor in my life. I feel like a lot of people bring discrimination on themselves by getting in people's faces too much. They like to say: "Accept me or else!' They go around demanding respect as a member of a group, instead of earning respect as an individual. And that sort of behavior invites discrimination. I've never demanded respect because I was gay, and I haven't experienced much discrimination when people find out that I am."
We were talking every day. Then her replies started taking longer. Then she stopped replying all together."
I've been making music my whole life, but I have the hardest time selling myself. And selling yourself is necessary if you want to be a successful artist. I can play something amazing, and I can say: "That's just how I like it.' But then I always lose my confidence, and say: 'But who am I? And why does it matter what I like?'"
Who would you say has influenced you most in your life?" My 7th grade math teacher, Mr. Tejada." How did he influence you?" It's hard to explain. He's the only one who would give me extra credit when I was failing. And if I didn't know something, he'd know what to do."
A couple of weeks ago, I was pleasantly surprised by several different emails telling me that HONY was going viral on Chinese social media. I tend to follow a complex business strategy of: Wow, that worked! Do more of that!"  Therefore, all HONY posts will now be translated into Chinese. These posts can be found on the official HONY Weibo account:

If you have Chinese friends, parents, cousins, colleagues, pen pals, lovers, stalkers, or enemies, please feel free to direct them to the page. As I figure out the best way to do this, hopefully I can use it as a model for translating HONY into other languages as well.
My mother died rather suddenly when I was eighteen. One thing that I didn't expect was the amount of resentment I would feel. I know it's not fair of me to put that sort of thing on other people. But when I see someone walking down the street with their mother, I feel jealous. I know their relationship is going to have its ups and downs, and it's going to evolve, and it will have this trajectory to it that I'll never have, and it just seems unfair. Of course I know it's absurd to talk about fairness in the universe." Why is that absurd?" Because there's no such thing as karma. I mean, when you're a good person, people can sense it and they'll reciprocate that goodness. But the universe isn't keeping some balance by guaranteeing you a reward."
I'm studying atomic processes. Specifically the behavior of electrons on the surfaces of solids when they are illuminated by light. Hopefully it will lead to the discovery of new materials that can be used to make more efficient solar cells."
What's your greatest struggle right now?" Struggle? What does that mean?" Challenge." Ah! Being a good grandmother." What's the toughest part about being a good grandmother?" Oh, I don't know if I can answer in English. Let me see.. Be Present. Listen. Be Loveful. Did I say that right? Loveful?"
What's your favorite thing about him?" His work ethic. We're from Duluth, Minnesota. He works 12-hour shifts at a tool factory, six days a week. Just so he can do nice things like this for me." What's your favorite thing about her?" Her indomitable warmth. Her smile got me through my mother's death."
I'm an economic forecaster currently specializing in Canada." So what's up next for Canada?" I think domestic spending will continue to grow at a steady rate, the trade side is going to get better, and business will bounce back."
He's always doing small things." What's an example of a small thing?" He heard me say that I wanted to check out this antique store. So for Valentine's Day, he went there and found out that they had a collection of old, vintage postcards. He discovered one from the 1920's that actually had a handwritten Valentine's Day note. And he got it for me."
This was so funny. I ran into this Mexican couple on a trail in Central Park, and they were lugging around all these balloons. I asked what the balloons were for, and the guy told me that he'd brought them all the way from Mexico. He said he'd concocted this elaborate plan, where he'd given balloons to different people around the city (starting with the hotel concierge), and sent the girl on a scavenger hunt to find them.Just because?"  I asked.Just because,"  he said.

When I got home, I had an email. It said: 
Brandon,
I couldn't tell you, but I was about to ask her to marry me.
She said yes!


Rodrigo
What do you want to be when you grow up?" Can I go down the hill now?"
You look like something from The Matrix." That's what my wife said."
Found evidence of massive snow battle.Apparently no survivors.
Today in microfashion
What's the most frightened you've ever been?" The first time I smoked weed, I thought a homeless guy was the Grim Reaper. So I started praying."
I was 35 when I met her. I was starting to think that there wasn't anybody out there for me."
They're for my friends."
She always keeps her head when bad things happen. I've had a health scare recently, and she could easily have gone to pieces, but she's stayed strong for me." What's the toughest thing you've ever gotten through together?" Our daughter was murdered eight years ago, and we're still fighting it every single day."
So what's the secret to long term love?" I don't know."
I always loved doing musicals in school, so when I came back from Iraq, I decided I was going to be an actor. I've been in all sorts of TV shows over the last ten years. You know, the kind of roles where people say: "Hey! Weren't you 'that guy' in 'that show?' I work as a police officer to pay the bills. All the other officers call me Officer Hollywood."
They came rolling toward me, just like this. I asked the little guy what his favorite thing about his friend was. He said: Mailbox!"  I asked what their favorite thing to do together was. He said: Fire extinguisher!"
The Lord told me to sew!"
It can be difficult dating a man who loves attention."
She helps me when I'm having problems at school." What's one thing she's helped you with?" Well, she's always telling me to stand up for myself." How do you stand up for yourself?" If somebody is saying mean things to you, you're supposed to tell them how it makes you feel."
My mom died when I was sixteen from cirrhosis of the liver. She had a really bad drinking problem, but I don't blame her, because she had an addiction problem and was dealing with the pressure of being a single mother my dad left the family when I was two. But my mom overcompensated for the guilt of drinking by spoiling me. And because she always gave me what I wanted, I'm finding it difficult to develop drive late in life. Wow, you're introspective." Yeah, therapy is going well."
My wife left me and went to Georgia." Why'd she leave you?" We'd just grown apart. I'd recommend getting married as late as you can. We got married because we had a baby. Then we both changed a lot, because both of us still had a lot of growing left to do. You should give yourself plenty of time to grow before getting married."
Had cancer six times. Beat cancer six times."
Today in microfashion
I had a little situation in college, so I think I'm going to enter the Air Force Reserves." What sort of situation?" According to them, I didn't pass my classes."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Get ready to do a lot of homework in 8th grade."
Seen at Lincoln Center
I'm trying to fight my way into these fashion shows!"
I never made it as a screenwriter. I tried to do what I loved and I failed. But the important thing is, I've found reasons to like every job I've done since then. I had a friend who committed suicide recently. He opened up his wrists in a bathtub. You know what he said to me once? He said: "I'm jealous of you because you can find a reason to enjoy anything you choose to do.'"
There have been several times that I've overheard her talking with her friends, and if somebody begins to gossip about another friend, she'll steer the conversation in another direction."
What was the happiest moment of your life?" When I married Joe." What was the saddest moment of your life?" When Joe died." What was your favorite thing about Joe?" He was oh-so-romantic." What's the most romantic thing Joe ever did?" Let's just say that he was good with his loving."
He didn't know much English beyond: I'm from China."  But he did pull out his iPad and showed me his brother, his toys, his drum set, and a picture of his class.
I have a Tanzanian friend who is a little embarrassed to wear her native clothing. I was looking in her closet one day and I said: "Whoa! Can I have these?'"
Today in microfashion
Back in Guyana, my father captained a ship with forty men. Here, he drives a bus for the MTA. It's been a tough adjustment, but he did it for his family." How many siblings do you have?" A lot. My dad was captain of the ship."
It was hard to watch because I always saw my Dad as Superman. He eventually forgot he had Alzheimer's even. So he walked around knowing he was fucked up, but not knowing why. So it made him angry. He was an old school Irish guy, so he used to get angry when he was scared."
I'm trying to stay calm while watching all my friends get accepted to Ivy League schools."
Is she your only child?" I have an eight year old son." How are you going to raise your daughter differently than your son?" I'm going to be there more." Why weren't you there more for your son?" I was really young, and he had autism. I blamed myself for it. I thought maybe it was a result of my lifestyle. I just didn't know how to handle it so I ran away from it. So I wasn't there for him when he was younger, and I didn't pick him up every time he fell. He knows I'm his dad but he doesn't feel close to me. And I don't want that to happen again."
You want to hear what just happened to me? I was in the subway station, and this man came walking by me. He seemed really angry and was talking gibberish and screaming about how he was going to kill anyone who talked to him. So I thought: "That guy's crazy, I'm gonna keep away from him.' Then two minutes later, another young man walked by and collapsed right in front of me, and started having a seizure. I bent down to help him, and you know what happened? The crazy guy bent down and said: 'He's having a seizure! Turn him on his side!' 

I thought: 'Wait a second! Weren't you just crazy?'"
She cheated on me." Did you know the guy?" I introduced them. I invested in the guy's business. He lost my life savings, then he took my wife."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Don't believe in anything." What's the last belief you held?" That I could believe in something."
Put this on Instagram."
They told me they like to make up dances to songs on the radio. Ukranian folk dances,"  their mom added.
I'm taking a 3 month memoir-writing course." So what's the most intense moment of your memoir?" When I was 17, my best friend died in my arms of an MDMA overdose."
I came from Mexico." Why'd you come?" Everybody comes for the money." Were you scared?Everybody's scared."
I see an empty fridge. He sees a seven course meal."
I try not to fight with people anymore. I just say: "You want to be stupid? You stay stupid. I'm moving forward.'"
For my dissertation, I'm studying the experiences of LGBT students in Catholic school settings." Have you found anything interesting?" Well, I've only interviewed four students so far. But the students I've talked to say that their peers are generally very supportive, and seem to identify more with the pastoral side of the religion than the dogmatic side." Pastoral?" You know accepting others, tending the flock."
I've got to tell you guys about all the amazing things happening over at . So we started this page on a whim last week, for the purpose of placing old dogs in new homes. (And by we, I mean 95% my girlfriend, and 5% me let's be honest.) Nearly 100,000 people liked"  the page in 24 hours. 
We've posted about 11 dogs so far, and 6 of them have been adopted from all over the country. It's just been an incredible success. Almost all of these dogs were ten years or older, and many of them had been in shelters for a long time. Check out these pictures of the pups in their new homes. Remember, these guys were sleeping in cages just last week. 
From Left to Right: Nina (13), Fancy (12), and Max (10).
Twenty years ago, I avoided going on a trip that I didn't want to go on because I broke my leg. I had only agreed to the trip in the first place because I wanted to avoid making my father mad. Afterward, I had this sudden realization that it had taken me breaking my leg to finally do what I wanted to do. And I've lived life on my own terms ever since."
I wanted to be in the FBI, but then I found out that first you have to be a police officer for four years. And I don't think I want to do that." Why not?" I'm literally five feet tall. If I tried to arrest someone, they'd think they were being pranked."
If you could change one thing about adults, what would it be?" I'd give them more money." More money?" Yeah. Some of them don't even have money to buy food."
I feel like I'm getting to the point where my age is starting to hurt me when I search for new jobs." How do you mean?" There's just this perception that older people aren't as sensitive to new things."
He was always very doting with my sisters. But he'd punish me for everything like being a little late for curfew, or not doing my homework. If I did anything wrong, he'd make me stay in all weekend. If I tried to explain myself, I'd get in more trouble. He hated excuses. I resented him at the time, but right before he died, he told me that he was harder on me because he knew I had so much potential. And it worked, I guess. Because now I'm a boss, and I hate excuses."
I kept yelling their names, trying to get them to look my way. He said: That won't work. You have to howl at them."
These questions are so hard."
One time we were at this house party, and he was really drunk and couldn't find me. So he called me, and while he was on the phone with me, he tripped down a flight of stairs and rolled into the room I was in."
Hold on. This will look cool."
I like to go to the library." What's your favorite thing to do at the library?" Watch videos on the computer!'
I've been trying stand-up comedy for about five years now. I'm struggling to find my voice." What do you mean by "voice?" I want to reach the point where it's me on stage, and not just a bunch of jokes I wrote."
Times Square is always quite the spectacle, but Saturday night the effect was the doubled with all the Super Bowl installations. This man got a little carried away with inspiration, jumped up on a police barricade, and screamed at the top of his lungs: ANYTHING IS POSSIBLE!"
I walked through Times Square last night to observe the Super Bowl revelry. Stepped into the Marriott Marquis, and decided to ride one of their glass elevators to the top floor. As soon as the door opened, I saw this:
Gotta work all your angles.
I pretty much only read fantasy because I've had more than enough of reality."
Seen in Chinatown
Today in microfashion
Seen in Chinatown
Seen in Chinatown
Mom, I gotta go, some guy says he wants to take my picture for some website."
I got it when I was young. I made the mistake of trying to stop someone from picking on me."
I'm trying to figure out what my dreams are."
Wanted to share with you guys a letter I got today, because I think it's a testament to the community of people who follow this blog. I've also attached the photo/caption referenced in the letter. I get nervous as the blog grows that the culture will fall apart, but with 2.7 million and counting the HONY comment section remains a sort of rare internet jewel where everyone, for the most part, is really nice. And when there is a mean comment, it sticks out as an anomaly, instead of the other way around. So thanks for that.
Hi Brandon, 
I'm Ted, we met getting off the Six at Grand Central. When I got home Sunday evening, I had an e-mail from friends in Chicago. One of their daughters reads your blog (is that what it is called?), and recognized me even though she has never seen me with a beard. I am astounded! I've read about 1000 of the comments, words cannot express how touched I am by what I have read. Its actually more than touched, it has been very emotional to read the wonderful things people have said. A couple people appear confused about what happened, for the record she had acute myelogenous leukemia, we were diagnosed July 2008, we lost our battle February 20 2013, not quite a year ago. Thanks for doing this, it has really touched my life. The most wonderful people in the world read your material and comment on it. 


At first we kept saying: "We're going to beat it. We're going to beat it.' Then after awhile we began to realize that we might not beat it. Then toward the end, it became clear that we definitely weren't going to beat it. That's when she started telling me that she wanted me to move on and find happiness with somebody else. But I'm not quite there yet. Not long ago a noise woke me up in the middle of the night, and I rolled over to ask if she needed anything."
I love crazy!"
When I was born, my dad had a wife and kids, and I don't think he wanted me to disrupt that world. So he never wanted anything to do with me. You should try again now that you're older." I tried last year."
I told her that if she wanted to start over, to meet where we first kissed. She was supposed to be here 15 minutes ago."
She's taught me to be a better communicator. In what way?" I used to let my anger get the best of me a lot, and I'd be really quick to write people off and hold grudges. She's helped me view conflicts within the framework of a friendship, as opposed to seeing them as the end of a friendship."
What's your biggest remaining goal in life?" Honestly, I just want to keep on. I've got a job with The City, and it's hard to do much better than that. I've got a pension. I've got benefits. And there's no better job security. You've got to fire yourself if you work for The City. You have to do wrong. If I work at that store across the street, they can tell me they don't need my services anymore. The City can't do that."
I'm around eighty years old. I'm not going to say exactly how old because my friends might see this. But the important thing is to keep moving! I just got back from Carnegie Hall, and yesterday I swam a quarter mile. But that's nothing. Two years ago I was in Syria when Egypt blew up."
Wait. What's the name of your blog?" Humans of New York." Oh! Is that a book too?" It is." My girlfriend gave me that book for Christmas!" Sounds like you didn't read it." Oh, I don't mean that, you know" It's OK. I don't mind if you didn't read it." Well, you know, Iyou know, it looks good you know I skimmed it."
I'm an actor." How has being an actor differed from your initial expectations?" Well, I think everyone decides to become an actor from a place of love. But when it becomes your job, there's an adjustment, because suddenly you are in competition with other people for your livelihood. And some people can't handle it. I've been lucky enough to find work my entire life. But I've seen a lot of talented people who weren't so lucky. So what separates you from the talented people who weren't able to find work?" I've always been very driven. I've seen many talented people fail because they aren't driven. In school, they were able to win roles because of their talent. But you reach a point where talent isn't enough to compete. Because as you progress, you're eventually going to run up against people who are both talented and driven."
I'm a big fat nerd." What's one thing that makes you a nerd?" Dude, I've been working renaissance fairs for 25 years, my hobby is making swords and daggers, and the patches on my jacket are from a science fiction novel."
I always tell my daughters to work with their head, so they don't have to work with their back. Which did you do?" What does it look like to you?"
The Russians run an underground fighting league in Coney Island where they pay junkies to fight. I fought about fifty fights for them. They pay you $200 win or lose. They'd always make sure I was real doped up before the fight. I mean they weren't good people but it did make me feel kinda important to have all those gangsters cheering for me. And they'd always be really happy if I won, because that meant I'd made them money."
Facebook is telling me that everyone has a house, a kid, and a dog. So I'm just trying to calm the fuck down."
My wife gets upset when I don't answer her text messages. Sometimes I'll be at work, and I'll get a text, but then I'll forget about it. And I'll remember it when I'm almost home, and try to answer it really quickly before I walk in the door. But it's too late."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" I'm a retired professor. Every time I've spoken to a large group of people, hardly anyone was listening."
The band broke up. It was a shit show. But we found some new people. And you know what? The band's even fucking better now."
I'm feeling masculine today."
I spend my time doing other people's stuff. I don't have time to do my own stuff. And if I have the time, I don't have the energy." So what would you do if you had the time?" I've always wanted to make a children's book." What would it be about?" It'd be about this boy who's waiting on a train to come into the station, and he announces to everybody that when the train comes, it's going to be on the ceiling. And then the train does come in on the ceiling. And he's got to figure out how to get it down."
How'd you meet?" We were nineteen. I was on break from college and lounging around the house. My mom said: "Call that Carter girl and ask her on a date!"
I just broke up well I just got broken up with. I thought I was going to marry him. It's frustrating. After being independent for so long, and going from place to place and man to man, I've finally come to a point where I'm ready to settle. And I can't."
Seen in Grand Central
Regardless of what you think about religion, it provides a space for people to reflect on how small we are. Now that religion is being increasingly phased out of society, people have to take it upon themselves to reflect on humanity's place in the universe. Even if that just means zooming out on Google Maps, until you get smaller, and smaller, and smaller."
Dear Brandon,
My boyfriend had given me a copy of your book as a gift for our sixth anniversary today. Curiously perplexed by his uncharacteristic gesture, I observed the pages to come across a photo of us, standing on 42nd street, exactly one year earlier. Shock sprawled across my face and emotion flooded my heart. My mind wandered back to the six months that had preceded this night, which had relentlessly challenged our hearts and nearly broken our bond. It was this night, on our fifth anniversary, that we vowed not to give up; and it was this night that began the start of our greatest year together. I never imagined that I would be staring into this moment again. A moment so fleeting that it had escaped us, lost to the chaos of our times; yet here it is, so beautifully captured and for all the world to see. Though we may be strangers, you have given us the greatest gift of all. Thank you so very much. 
With much love,

Eika
At first we kept saying: "We're going to beat it. We're going to beat it.' Then after awhile we began to realize that we might not beat it. Then toward the end, it became clear that we definitely weren't going to beat it. That's when she started telling me that she wanted me to move on and find happiness with somebody else. But I'm not quite there yet. Not long ago a noise woke me up in the middle of the night, and I rolled over to ask if she needed anything."
My parents have always been very dismissive of depression in other people. So I'm afraid to tell them that I think I'm getting depressed."
If you could give your eighteen year old self a piece of advice, what would you say?" Don't date that girl for seven years in your twenties." At what point did you realize the relationship wasn't going to work out?" Probably about four years in." So why did you stay in it?" Time flies. And with each passing year, we had more and more invested in it. But we kept growing farther apart. We thought a dog might help bring us closer together, so we got a dog. But it didn't help. And a year passed. Then we thought maybe if we moved from the suburbs to the city, it might help. But it didn't. And another year passed. Then we thought maybe if we got a bigger place. So we did, but it didn't help. Then it got to the point where I started thinking, maybe The Next Step will help bring us closer together. But luckily it ended before that."
I got some purple ones because my yellow ones weren't feeling too good."
What's the hardest thing you've ever gotten through together?" I know. And he knows. But we'd rather not say."
Do you remember the happiest moment of your life?" When I got my Camaro." Do you remember the saddest moment of your life?" When I crashed my Camaro."
We've been on it for two years."  Did you do drugs before that?"  A line of coke at a party, every once in awhile we'd pop a couple Vicodin and watch TV. But we had normal lives. She was an office administrator, I was a cook. Then I got hurt and got a prescription for some Oxycontins. And I gave a few to her. And before long we were crushing them up and snorting them. Then we started doing heroin cause it was cheaper. It's the same thing, really, as the Oxycontins. Just cheaper."   What's it feel like when you stop doing heroin?"  It's like dying. And being reborn again. Your eyes keep crying and your nose keeps running and you've got cold sweats. And for like 4 days you're flopping around and can't get comfortable, so you can't sleep for days so you start thinking crazy and seeing things. And if you can make it through those four days without getting a bag of dope, then you come out the other side so exhausted you can't move. If you're lucky you can get some methadone from a clinic, but that's even more addictive than the heroin."  Would you say heroin has ruined your life?"  Absolutely."  Do you mind if I share that?"  That's fine. Just say one thing. Be sure to say that we really do love each other and we're trying to fix our lives."
What's the most frightened you've ever been?" Probably when I was five, and I learned I had Polio." What's one way that Polio improved your life?" It made me more tolerant of failure in others."
I did some stupid things when I was younger." What was the stupidest?" We faked a hanging." You faked a what?" A hanging. Back in college, a group of us strapped a guy into a harness, put a rope around his neck, and hung him from some pipes. Then we ran and got the Dean of Students."
It was one drunken mistake, so I didn't think it was that big of a deal. So I told her about it. Turns out it was a big deal."
My mind was on sex all the time, so I wasn't being very considerate of her needs or feelings. I should have been taking her out more, and doing nice things for her."
We've been together 20 years, but I'd put on a lot of weight recently. But even when I was struggling with it, she always supported me and saw my core. And this year I was able to lose 76 lbs."
Seen on the Upper West Side
I ran away to California for a week without telling anyone. I wanted to remove myself from everything, to see if I could work out some things in my head. But it actually created more problems. I learned it doesn't really work that way." How do you mean?" Just that if you can't figure out your problems in your present circumstances, you're probably not going to figure them out by running away from them."
I'm a Catholic priest."
What's the most difficult part about being a priest?"

You sort of have to be all things to all people, and everyone expects you to fulfill their needs right away. It may sometimes seem like I'm not concerned with your problem. But I might just be tired. Or have the flu."
I was engaged eight years ago, but my fiancee died in Iraq. After that, I promised myself that I'd never be that dependent on someone again. So after I met my husband, I fought marriage for the longest time. But we got married in September. And even though I was rebelling against it, and I always saw it as a meaningless formality, I've been surprised. There's a comfort in knowing that you're sworn to someone else."
I was running for the Long Island Railroad when I was eighteen years old, and tripped and fell between the tracks just as the train was starting to move. Everything below the knee got shattered and had to be amputated. The funny thing is I'd been spending all my time worrying about being drafted to Vietnam. I learned at an early age that the bad things that happen to you are rarely the ones that you're worrying about."
Seen in Central Park
Well there's this girl that I'm friends with, and you know, I like her, but I don't know if she likes me" Do you mind if I share that?" I don't know, if you share it, she might figure it out." She'll definitely figure it out."  do it."
Today in microfashion
What was the happiest moment of your life?" Well, it's not now."
I just want to spend a few more years with my grandson." Is there anything you want to teach him?" I leave that to his parents. I just want to be there."
I've been working for 45 years, and so has my wife. But we have no money. You know why? Because my five kids have two bachelor's, a master's, and two doctorate degrees. They are my wealth."
I have trouble at school with things like maintenance and organization. Those are my weaknesses." So what are your strengths?" Raw intelligence. Not sure how else to say it."
One shot. Three dollars."
I thought I was raising independent children, but they're 18 and 21 and I'm having trouble getting them to leave the nest. So I set a fall deadline. It'll be tough but I'm going to stand firm: college, job corp, army, anything. I'm hoping that even if they fail, they'll at least find out what they want to do. I want to help them. But I want to be their counselor, not their provider."
He's got three dance moves."
My dad was just a working class Irish dude. He drank himself to death when I was fifteen, but he was a good dad when he was sober. I remember him taking me to a gay wedding on Christopher Street to teach me tolerance. And that was back in 1971."
When I was young, I thought I'd be in a rocking chair by now. But it's not nearly as bad as I feared. My bones kind of ache on rainy days, but other than that, I like being 82."
I hate fractions."
My wife is in the hospital right now with double pneumonia. Her kidneys failed on Wednesday, and she can't talk anymore. But I know she can hear me. I go in every day and talk into her ear." How did you meet her?" I was sitting on the stoop just like this. It was 1960. I was fourteen and just sitting on the stoop of my house, and this bodacious girl came up. Big legs, big thighs, and jeans so tight that I didn't know how she was walking down the road. She came right up and sat on my lap and didn't leave until the sun went down. A few years later we had a kid. And I stayed with her. It wasn't always great but I stayed with her."
Do you remember the saddest moment of your life?" When I found out I was wrong about my religious beliefs."
Paige passed me the puck and I scored a goal!"
Is that a case of beer and an electronic baby Jesus?"
Yep."
How do those things go together?"
Well, we drank a bunch of these. And we found this."
I left my third wife by putting a note on her pillow saying: "Gone to the store to get cigarettes. Be back in 5 minutes.' That was twelve years ago and I haven't been back yet. I don't even smoke."
If you could change one thing about adults, what would it be?"
A lot of them are grumpy."
I'm wearing really plain looking underwear."
What was the happiest moment of your life?"
When I came for the first time. God damn!"
The young people are abusing themselves with their drinking and their smoking!"
I feel guilty whenever I have the opportunity to engage with my kids, but instead choose to do something for myself."
I'm a caring person."
What's the hardest part about being a caring person?"
People can take advantage of your kindness."
How so?"
If people know you care, and that you won't let something fail, they know that you'll pick up their slack."
If you could change one thing about your brother, what would it be?"
His toys."
What was the happiest moment of your life?"
I don't know."
What was the saddest moment of your life?"
I don't know."
What's your best quality?"
I don't know."
What's your worst quality?"
Indecisiveness."
You know how most parents eventually get to the place where they say: "May not have been what I was hoping for, but this is who my kid is.'? Well, my dad never got there."
She's a very caring person."
Can you give me an example of a time she was caring?"
We had a 16 year old Corgi. For the last three years of his life, he couldn't walk up stairs. And even though he got to be 32 lbs, every time he needed to go outside she would carry him up and down four flights of stairs."
I'm trying to open my heart more."
How do you do that?"
You're looking at it right now. In ten minutes I'm supposed to meet some guy from a dating site."
I'm using my lunch break to search for some Baltimore Orioles that are overwintering. They should have been gone by October or November, but there have been several sightings lately."
So why did they stay?"
Well Baltimore Orioles love fruit, and I'm pretty sure all the bird nerds have been feeding them oranges to keep them around."
Are you a bird nerd?"
I try to keep it to my lunch break."
I lived in a cave for 6 months in the Canary Islands. I was tripping acid on a rock outside the cave when I realized that everything makes the exact same sound. We're all made of atoms, and atoms vibrate, and so everything in the Universe is tied together by the sound of that vibration."
I'll tell you what my grandmother told me. She always said: "Don't take any plug nickels.'"
What's an example of a time when you accidentally took a plug nickel?"
I took a job one time because of all the travel they were promising me. Then they ended up just sticking me in a desk in the corner."
I collect treasures."
What's your best treasure?"
A brown and red pot. Ancient Egyptians used to keep brains in pots!"
I had an interview at Goldman Sachs. It was a total wipeout. It was really friendly for the first six hours, and I thought I was doing great. Then right at the end, when my brain was turning to mush, they brought in a math mastermind who crushed me."
What's the scariest part about having a child?"
He doesn't think he can get hurt."
I want to be a princess hairdresser."
What's going to be the hardest part about being a princess hairdresser?"
Cutting Rapunzel's hair."
What's the most frightened you've ever been?" Lots of spider memories come to mind."
I'm trying to keep the love going in my family."
How do you keep love going?"
Love is a fragile thing. It will dissolve, so you have to recreate it everyday. Everyday you have to give your woman a new reason to love you."
I've flown straight my entire life."
How do you fly straight?"
If there's an election, vote. If there's a cause, participate. If there's a war, enlist."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?"
Overthrow the government."
I better not show up with boobs on Facebook."
I got an email last night from a Princeton student named Shubhro Saha, who told me that he'd created an application called PHONY, which generates random HONY posts. ()

It's an experiment in seeing how well a computer can generate HONY-style posts,"  he explained. The app rearranges dialog from previous posts and presents the result beside a stock photo image."

So, anyway, I tested it out
Sometimes it's so hard to not fall in love with your friends."
Long Day
I don't have any deadlines now that I'm writing for myself, but I'm having trouble finishing things. It's much easier to stop when something is due than to stop when it's good."
After my best friend committed suicide, I spent a year answering phones at a suicide prevention hotline. I worked the midnight to 4 AM shift."
Why did your friend commit suicide?
I think like most people who take their own lives, he was just feeling very isolated. He’d just come back from college, was living with his parents, and was in a very bad place. I’ve always felt guilty about my last words to him. I visited him at his parents’ house, and as I was leaving, I told him: ‘This is a bad situation. You’ve got to get out of here.’
I'm 86. And that's about enough. I'm ready to go."
Aren't you afraid of death?"
Why would I be?"
Isn't that sort of a natural condition of living?"
Not when you miss your husband as much as I do."
Back in 1976, two hundred tall ships sailed into New York Harbor for an exhibition. Millions of people came to see it, and my boyfriend and I managed to get exclusive permission to print the programs. We sold them for $3 a piece, and at the end of the week, we had $750,000 in dollar bills piled up in our small studio apartment. It was absolutely thrilling."
Are the two of you still together?"
No, he took his half of the money and bought a farm upstate. I refused to go with him. But we're still best friends."
So who came after that?"
There were others. But I don't currently have a steady, if that's what you're getting at."
What was the saddest moment of your life?"
When my mother died."
What's your fondest memory of your mother?"
When I was 13 years old, I had an accident and was in a body cast for 6 months. I couldn't even sit up. She would come in my room everyday, turn up the radio, and sing in my ear."
The first day I arrived from Ecuador, I rode by this building on the bus. I remember looking at it and thinking: "THAT is where I want to work!' One month later, my friend was able to get me a job in the museum restaurant. So I got my wish."
She had a small heart attack on Mother's Day. When we went to the hospital, we learned that she had stage 4 lung cancer. She passed away soon after."
Are you dating again?"
Just starting to."
Is it hard to date without feeling like you're betraying her memory?"
It's been three years. Obviously thirty years with someone creates a strong bond, and I still visit her grave. But it gets to the point where you want to share your life with someone again."
He looks just like me, but with gray hair. I've tried to forgive, but every time I see him, it all comes back to me, and it's like I have to forgive him all over again."
I left Russia in 1992. Russia was a very different country back then. All the shelves were empty. When I walked into my first American supermarket, I didn't even know half the foods existed. And when I saw Toys R Us, it seemed like a miracle to me. Every kind of toy! In one place!"
My visa expires in a week."
What's your greatest struggle right now?"
My kid."
What specifically about your kid?"
I don't know. Getting shit into his little head. He's a kid."
I read the blog every fucking day. I just came in on a bus from Maryland. The whole time I was thinking: "I'm going to find a cute old couple, I'm going to park next to them, and I'm going to get on HONY!'"
My drinking caused one of my best friends to stop talking to me."
Why did he stop talking to you?"
It wasn't one thing. It was a million little things. It's tough being someone who cares about a drunk."
I was a sheep in the play at church!"
Oh yeah? What was the sheep's job?"
To follow the bigger kids on to the stage."
She's very quiet and sort of does her own thing. She's not a cheerleader, and she's not out partying every weekend when her friends' parents are out of town. On one hand, it makes her a very easy child to raise. But on the other hand, I sometimes worry about her fitting in."
Our tortoise got too big so he has to go live at the zoo."
If you were to give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?"
Move to Florida."
What's the nicest thing your brother has ever done for you?"
One time he made me a card. It said: "Dear Steve, thanks for giving me a new toy.'"
Moe was a doctor, but we were the least medicated family in New York. He was very against prescription drugs, and very passionate about the benefits of veganism. Even though he was a doctor, he was always very wary of the healthcare industry. He thought the whole system was sustained by sickness, not health. He said there was little interest in curing patients, and little interest in killing patients, because everyone made their money off long-term illnesses sustained by drugs. Moe never charged his patients more than $5 per visit. Millionaires and homeless people paid the same price. For 30 years, he never once raised his prices. The IRS always thought our family was hiding money, because they didn't believe a doctor could make so little."
When I was 19, my girlfriend and I were going to study in Paris. Our boyfriends came to the docks to see us off. Right as we were getting on the ship, my friend's boyfriend said to her: "If you go, I won't wait for you.' So she turned around and decided to stay. My fiance saw this and told me: 'I won't wait for you either.'
I said: 'Don't!'"
He was away for almost four years during the war. When he wrote me letters, he was never allowed to tell me where he was. So he'd draw cartoons to help me guess."
When he was dying, I said: "Moe, how am I going to live without you?' He answered: 'Take the love you have for me, and spread it around."
What's your favorite thing about your mom?"
She's beautiful."
This is my first time in America. I stayed in this great hotel, took a helicopter ride, went on a photo-trek to all the famous spots in the city, and got married in Central Park on Christmas day. It's been true!"
I went to a psychic the day before I met him. She told me I was about to meet the woman of my dreams. I said: "I'm gay.'"
Red, White, and Blue
I can't stand moral absolutism. You know, there's always that guy who wants to point out that Martin Luther King cheated on his wife as if he obviously couldn't have been a great person if he did something like that. Or someone will bring out an inspirational quote, and get you to agree, and then inform you that Hitler said it. As if a good thought couldn't come from Hitler. Moral absolutism keeps us from learning from the past. It's easy to say: "Hitler was a demon. Nazis were all bad seeds.' That's simple. It's much harder to say: 'Is that humanity? Is that me?'"
I collect antique kimonos from the pre-war period."
We met in Vienna. On a train. In the snow."
Do you remember the saddest moment of your life?"
When I realized that I hadn't killed myself, and I was still alive."
I sort of broke up with my whole family."
She always wanted to be my number one priority, so I didn’t accomplish much while we were together. I spent all my time hanging out with her. After she cheated on me, I started doing me. I went back to college and got my degree."
I just want to die gracefully.
Is there a lot of fear wrapped up in that desire?
Of course there is. Facing the inevitable physical decline, not knowing what’s ahead. Hospital visits, chemotherapy, it’s all very scary. Fear is the oldest and strongest emotion, and it springs from the unknown. What was that T.S. Eliot quote, something about interstellar spaces…


———————————

From East Coker,
by T.S. Eliot

O dark dark dark. They all go into the dark,
The vacant interstellar spaces, the vacant into the vacant,
The captains, merchant bankers, eminent men of letters,
The generous patrons of art, the statesmen and the rulers,
Distinguished civil servants, chairmen of many committees,
Industrial lords and petty contractors, all go into the dark.
"Go to New York,' he said, 'I support you. Follow your dreams of becoming an actress.' Then two months later he got his coworker pregnant."
She's my best friend."
How'd you meet?"
Five years ago, I was having an argument with her girlfriend and she came out of nowhere and hit me."
Now I don't remember that."
It happened."
I run a senior support group in the neighborhood."
What would you say is one thing that seniors need most?"
Just human connection, really."
Can you describe a benefit of human connection?"
Well, we had one elderly lady living alone awhile back, and she got taken in by a scammer who convinced her to give away all her money. If she'd had someone else to talk to, and been more tied into the community, that probably could have been prevented."
One shot then I gotta go."
I want to be a ballerina."
What's going to be the best part about being a ballerina?"
Spinning."
I live in a one bedroom with six other people. I'm trying to get to college so I can get the fuck up out of here."
What's the biggest obstacle keeping you from doing that?"
Prioritizing problems. There's a lot of problems in the hood, and it's tough to prioritize them."
Can you give me an example?"
Yeah. If your girlfriend just dumped you, or you don't have any nice clothes, it can be tough to realize that your first concern should be getting good grades next semester."
My son got killed when he was eighteen."
What happened?"
He got shot, of course. That's all they do."
I'm on my way to a Burning Man event."
So how would you describe the Burning Man community?"
Well it's really everything and nothing it's sort of a home for people who have a hard time identifying anywhere else and there are these ten principles and it's all connectedwellbasically it's a bunch of dorks."
Seen in Grand Central
Three thousand years ago I had a disagreement with Zeus about the Trojan War, and he's been harassing me ever since."
You were alive three thousand years ago?"
All of us were."
Pretty funny/cool surprise last night. I was walking near my house around midnight, without my camera and wearing nondescript winter clothes. A cab came flying past me, then immediately slowed down and pulled over. I assumed it was dropping somebody off. When I caught up to the cab, the driver leaned out the window. There you are,"  he said. I've been hauling this thing around for weeks."
My girlfriend spent most of yesterday gathering debriefings from everyone involved in HONY For The Holidays. We matched about 75 people with hosts, there were no reported murders, and everyone seems to have had a blast. Success! Thanks to everyone who opened up their home and participated.
We were living with her dad's parents, but things didn't work out. So now we're at the shelter."
I was on a commercial flight yesterday, heading back from a visit to Atlanta, when the captain announced that the plane was transporting the body of a slain serviceman. I was sitting at the back of the plane, so when we finally arrived at LaGuardia, I had to wait several minutes for my turn to exit. When I finally stood up from my seat, the scene was surreal. The entire left side of the plane was empty. But everyone on the right side of the plane was still in their seats faces pressed against the window. I walked past thirty rows of seats before I finally found an open window, and could see what everyone was looking at. The soldier's name was Ibraham Torres.
My dad was very domineering when I was growing up, and discouraged me from expressing myself. Now he's older and wants a relationship, and doesn't understand why I can't express myself to him."
We didn't lose a single football game from 7th grade to 12th grade. We had what they called the "presidential backfield.'"
The presidential backfield?"
We had an all white front line, and three brothers in the backfield named Nixon, Kennedy, and Johnson."
She made all her Christmas presents by hand."
My father was a very generous man. He had a good job at the motor company and made a lot of money, but he never saved a penny. He took care of his family first, but then he gave all his money to people back in Yemen to keep them from starving. And I'm not talking about the American definition of starving. I mean, these people were really starving."
Today in microfashion
He held up four fingers and said: I'm number this one."
My mom's going to have a heart attack when she sees the cigarette."
When I was ten, I went to pull down some clothes from the top shelf of the closet, and all these toys fell down on me. I ran outside, looked up in the sky, and didn't see Santa anywhere. I said: "They've been hiding those toys from me all these years!'"
My grandmother taught me how to draw."
What's one thing that she taught you about drawing?"
That even if you just scribble scrabble on the page you can turn it into wind or a tree if you look at it right."
He's my little brother." What's your favorite thing about him?" Eh, he's cool. Just gets a little hyper sometimes. Starts screaming and jumping for no reason."
Bet the suspense was killing him.
I didn't sleep much last night. I've been feeling a little blue."
Why's that?"
Oh, you know. The holidays. Memories, memories"
I'm currently working the Renaissance Fair circuit." Cool. Playing music?" No. I dress up like a pirate and sell boots."
I need to get to Vegas. That's the place to be!"
What would you do in Vegas?"
Don't know. Never been."
Bring it on.
He was a home birth. I worked at an Ivorian refugee camp in Liberia, and witnessed a lot of women give birth in tents. I thought: "If they can do it in a tent, then I can certainly do it in my home.'"
Listen, I've got to go. If I tell them I'm late because I was getting interviewed, they're not gonna want to hear that. Not gonna believe that for a second."
What do you want to be when you grow up?"
A police officer."
What's the hardest part about being a police officer?"
Saving people."
Seen from 17th Street.
I'm a little worried because he's two and he's not talking yet. Everyone is telling me that he should be talking, and I see other babies imitating and having little conversations. But he's only two, so we'll give it another year."
God has gotten me through so, so much."
We're doing an annual fun and sexy memorial run for our friend Joe. Joe's still alive though. He's actually perfectly healthy. We're just trying to raise awareness for him. Awareness of Joe."
So wait, are you raising money for something?"
Nope. Just raising sexy."
We're organizing grassroots efforts in both Israel and Palestine to pressure leaders for a two state solution."
Do you find more people wanting a two state solution in Palestine than Israel?"
Nobody WANTS a two state solution on either side. But on both sides, over 60% of people are willing to accept a two state solution. The problem is while 60% are willing to accept a compromise, only 30% of people think that a compromise is possible. And when one side thinks that the other side will never compromise, it reverts back to pure self-interest. And that's a dangerous thing. So we're trying to bridge that belief gap, and convince the 60% of people that are willing to compromise that compromise is indeed possible."
This is me normally."
She can turn any ordinary moment into an adventure."
Can you give an example of that?"
When Hurricane Sandy destroyed the bottom floor of our house, she decorated the rubble in Christmas lights."
I'm having trouble getting my work out there. I have a hard time finding the self-confidence. If it was up to me, I'd just make my work in isolation and not worry about the marketing or promotion, but I know I can't do that. The problem is my work is really quiet. It's very subtle and subdued. It takes time to appreciate. And there's so much image saturation in today's world, it seems that only the most aggressive imagery is getting noticed. I'm finding that it takes a lot of boldness to take a firm stance in making quiet work."


She's a little diamond."
This man never came to a complete stop. So when I asked him for advice, I knew the first thing he said would probably be the only thing I'd get. He spoke with a very thick accent. If you work your entire life,"  he said, You will have very long life. If you stop no good. By the time he finished talking, he was already past me.
Today is the LAST DAY to order a HONY book online if you want it to be guaranteed to arrive before Christmas. (Unless you want to pay for priority shipping.) My agent and editor thought I should pass this information along, but I thought we'd done enough promotion already.
But I'll tell you what,"  I said, If you both meet me at noon, and pose for the post, I'll put one more up."  They agreed.

When they showed up, I was holding a strange bag.
What's in the bag?"  they asked.



6 HOURS LEFT to order a HONY Book XMAS gift:
AMAZON:
I'm trying to make more decisions with my heart instead of my brain."
So what's one decision you wish you'd made with your heart?"
Probably breaking up with my ex-girlfriend. I broke up with her because I thought it would be smarter to focus on school, and now I don't think it was a good idea. I mean, it's all good though, because we still talk and everything."
Well, if you still talk, then why don't you get back together?"
Well, at first she was upset about it. But then she understood my point of view, so she wasn't upset about it anymore. And now she's not upset but you know, it's starting to bounce around in the back of my mind, and"
So she won't take you back?"
 something like that."
Seen on the Upper West Side
So you've done a lot of these interviews, right?"
Yep."
So just how neurotic am I?"
So what's the conclusion of the book?"  it feels good."
I asked her 15 questions.She made this face 15 times.Then I walked away.
I'm trying to straighten my neck against the wall. I've got really bad posture because I was miserable and defeated in high school. But now things are going much better, so I thought I should try to improve it!"
We went to a real rocket museum with real rockets."
I'm a stuntman." What's the best stunt you've ever done?" Last week I got hit by a cab for Law and Order SVU." Did it hurt?" Well, it didn't tickle."


Poor Susie knows we're selling something every time the Santa outfit comes out. ANYWAY, Amazon and BN tell me that there are only TWO DAYS LEFT to order a HONY book for guaranteed Christmas delivery.  AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: 






Found this little critter while looking at Christmas lights in Dyker Heights last night.
What's your biggest remaining goal in life?"
To find true love, I guess."
How would you define true love?"
I don't know. I guess it means when someone is 100% committed to you"
Have you found it before?"
I thought I did."
I'm a substance abuse counselor. I always try to create a linkage between me and the people I'm trying to help to let them know that we're doing this together. Because I've been there and done that."
What were you addicted to?"
I was addicted to lifestyle, actually. I was a substance abuse dealer. I started with marijuana, then graduated to cocaine, then eventually I even had people working under me."
What made you start dealing drugs?"
It's a long story, but I think it comes down to not having a family. My mom wasn't around. My stepfather abused my sister. I think I was looking for a family. And with drugs and money, I managed to create a group of people who were loyal to me."
I had a whole vision. I wasn't a pro, but I could film from different angles and stuff. I was going to have a whole YouTube channel with different kids doing rap battles. I worked really hard at it, but nobody except my friends ever looked at it. And all the adults in my life told me that I was wasting my time. So one day I got mad at life, and started deleting, deleting, deleting, until it was all gone."
We broke up in a Starbucks. A week later, I walked by and the place had been completely bulldozed to the ground. I always thought that was the Universe doing me a favor."
What's going on here?"
Just taking a walk."
How long have you known each other?"
Carter Administration. You do the math."
It's important to forgive."
What have you had the hardest time forgiving?"
I'm not sure."
When have you most needed forgiveness?"
Not sure about that either. I'm not talking about anything big, really. I'm talking about all the small things that need forgiveness. Stuff with your brothers and sisters and friends. Forgiveness keeps relationships moving. Without forgiveness, everything comes to an end."
I asked her for a piece of advice, and she reached into her mom's purse and pulled out a whiteboard. She has laryngitis,"  her mom explained. No talking for a week."
Check out this little goober.
HONY For The Holidays was an experiment we tried for the first time last year, where we found holiday dinners for people who happened to be stuck in New York with no place to go for Christmas. (The idea emerged from my experience during the early days of HONY, when I was too broke to go home, and spent Christmas Eve at a 24 hour diner. So I know how much it sucks.) My girlfriend organized the whole thing, and we ended up matching about 15 or 20 people with families who had an extra place at the table. It was really cool.

Anyway, my girlfriend is ready to do it again this year. She's pretty fired up about it, actually. I gently reminded her that the audience is 20x larger this time around, but she was undeterred. She's had her Excel spreadsheet ready for days, and I even got yelled at last night for not posting anything yet.
I'll do it tomorrow,"  I told her.
You said that yesterday,"  she said.

So please, if you can spare an extra spot at the table this Christmas, please be in touch. And if you have no place to go this Christmas, please be in touch. We'll match you up with somebody, and much cheer will be had. We'll also make sure everyone is well acquainted before they meet, so there will be no surprises: honyfortheholidays@gmail.com

The attached picture is from one of the dinners last year.

-

When you send an email:

Please include GUEST or HOST in SUBJECT LINE
- HOST: include how many people in host party, ages, approximate location, what time they will be eating, and how many guests they can host
- GUEST: include age(s) and approximate location
I could look poised in a paper bag. These are ladies' pants, I don't even care."
Today in microfashion.
Thank [Amorphous Deity used to describe the magic, wonder, and beautifully unattainable mystery of our life and universe describable only in poetry, metaphors, and parables which are often taken a bit too literally resulting in judgement, division, and violence]! The HONY Book is finally back in stock online!

AMAZON:
BARNES AND NOBLE:
At this time in my life, there's nothing I really value more than interaction with my children, and they've just grown so busy that there's not much of it. All I can really do is trust that they care, even if they don't communicate it, and reflect on all the times that I didn't reply to my mother when she sent me things."
May or may not have just passed Mr. Miyagi in the Fulton Street subway station.
My dad is being a huge asshole right now."
How so?"
He told me all I do is cost him money."
Do you mind if I share that?"
I don't care. I already did an art piece about it."
Hold on. Let me get sexy."
She passed away when I was 21, two months after we found out she had cancer."
How would you say that you are most like her?"
She was my artistic and fashion inspiration. We were always doing projects together. If there was ever anything I really wanted because everyone at school had it, she'd always say: "Let's make it!' One time I came home and she had made me some moccasins from a piece of suede."
It's too cold for dadgum pictures!"
Is there a particular memory that comes to mind most often when you think of your youth?"
We used to spend our summers in the south of France. I remember playing in the spice garden in the backyard of our house."
What specifically do you remember doing in the garden?"
I'd be half in my imagination, and half in reality. The way children are"
Can you give an example of that?"
I don't know say that I was playing in a patch of lavender. And I'm smelling the lavender, and holding the lavender. In my imagination, I'd also be in the future, giving the lavender to my family and friends."
I've been working on a fantasy novel since the eighth grade. I've got about one thousand pages so far. I'm just missing the beginning."
What's it about?"
Lots of fighting. In space."
I've put in a lot of years behind prison walls. You get used to things when you're in there. You get comfortable with people telling you what to do, when to get up, when to go to sleep. And when you get out, you don't really know what to do with your freedom. They might not admit it, but most guys who come out are looking for a way back in."
This is her first snow. Up until two months ago, we were living on a beach in Thailand."
I'm looking for some action."
What kind of action?"
Any kind of action."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?"
I don't think I should be advising anyone."
Ok, well if you could give one piece of advice to yourself at the age of eighteen, what would it be?"
Stay sober."
Were you able to stay sober?"
Not terribly well."
How would your life have been different if you had?"
Not sure how different it would have been. But I'd have been a lot more at peace with myself along the way."
I was born in China, but grew up in New Zealand."
City New Zealand or hobbit New Zealand?"
 hobbit New Zealand."
Look at this two-headed mutant I found on Park Avenue.
I work at a yarn store."
Seen in Central Park
I'm going to be signing books tomorrow evening at the Upper East Side Barnes and Noble on 86th Street, from 6pm to 9pm. (No speeches or anything, just a casual, run-of-the-mill signing.)

I know it's last minute, but I made the decision rather impulsively because the manager Will made me a sign, and I was quite touched. The negotiations went something like this:

Wow! A sign!"
Will you do an event here?"
Sure!"

So here's Will and the sign he made. After I took his photo, Will asked me if I was going to include the fact that he used to work as a callboy.
You were a callboy?"  I asked.
Of course not,"  he replied. I give that shit away for free."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Love yourself." What's the hardest part about loving yourself?" Self-hatred. Which I have a lot of." Why do you hate yourself?" It started with an over possessive mother making me feel guilty. Then growing up in Flint, Michigan, I was made to feel guilty for being gay. So it all started with other people making me feel guilty. But then I grew up, and I took over their job for them."
My uncle was like my father. He stepped in and raised me when my father left." What's one important thing he taught you?" He taught me to hit back. He told me that if somebody hit me, and I didn't hit back, that he was going to hit me." Now that you're grown, do you think that's a good thing?" It's easy to say that it's not. But I was a small kid in a tough neighborhood, and it taught people not to pick on me. So I appreciated it."
I'm trying to get out of my brokeness."
Why are you broke?"
I was born broke. Nobody ever gave me anything. Nobody ever bought me anything. But I made it hard on myself too. I left school. I left home. I threw all my stuff in the street and left."
Why'd you do that?"
My feelings were hurt. Nobody ever cared about me. Nobody ever said: "Charlie, what's wrong?' They said, 'Shut up, Charlie. We've got our own problems.'"
What was the greatest day you ever spent together?"
Had to be when there was a full lunar eclipse while we were floating on a houseboat in a swamp in Botswana. Not even the guide knew it was coming. It was a full moon that night, and suddenly I noticed a corner of it starting to disappear. Then a quarter. Then a half. Then it went completely dark, and the Milky Way just filled up the sky."
She's a mother in name only. We get in fights, but she's always so drunk that she never remembers them. We live in the same house, but haven't had a real conversation in over a year."
I'm just a fat guy sitting in the cold."
Why are you sitting in the cold?"
I'm waiting to go to work. I work an overnight security job. I live in Philly, but I take the bus up here and stay for four days each week. I can't find work in Philly and I've got two kids."
Where do you sleep?"
Starbucks, McDonalds, anywhere I can take a quick nap."
I've been learning bagpipes for 23 years. Now guess how old I am."
. 26."
Nope! I'm 22. Both my parents played."
I want to be an actress. But if I ever get tired of that, I'm going to write books."
What do you want to write about?"
I could write about a girl who is an orphan. And she's twelve years old and living in an orphanage. And then I could put myself in her position, and write a book about what I would do."
I'm trying to be both a Buddhist and a businessman."
What's the most difficult part of that?"
Wanting to be successful, while at the same time letting go of the attachment to desire."
Isn't that impossible?"
You can desire. You just can't be attached to desire. It's about living in the moment and enjoying the attempt to realize your ideas, while at the same time letting go of the need for a positive outcome."
What's your greatest struggle right now?"
Not living my father's life."
These two just caught me in Grand Central without my camera, but had to capture them with phone.
I like to flip through old books to see if I can find any handwritten notes. Once I found one with a love note from 1917."
I make stop motion animations with miniature busts of human heads."




She has many traditional Mexican outfits."
As you grow older, your perspective changes. I no longer think in terms of the next ten, or twenty years. I think in terms of the next three years."
So what do you want to accomplish over the next three years?"
Not much."
Her name was Holiday.
I'm scheduling a meeting with the Prime Minister of Ireland as we speak."
Too many drugs. Too much wasted time."
You know where the real money is? Porno."
A squirrel saw me eating some nuts and now it's following me!"
Wendell is hands down the greatest homeless fashion designer who ever lived. He makes almost all his clothes from things he finds. I hadn't seen him in awhile, so I was quite thrilled to walk up on him Tuesday, doing this to a Gandhi statue.
A lot of young people seem to have this illusion about old people, and think they're all wise and sweet like Grandma. But there are some real nasty ones at my senior center. Some sweet college students brought cupcakes today, and some of the residents were running off with them by the armful. They could make a sitcom about that place."
The coat is from Afghanistan, the shirt is from Uzbekistan, and the jewelry is Turkish and Persian."
We saw each other in the hall, and knew that we should know each other."
One day you'll feel eighteen, look sixty, and wonder what happened."
What's the most frightened you've ever been?"
Mostly when I meet new people."
Why's that?"
I just always wonder if people are going to look at me normal and treat me normal."
Do they?"
Most of the time. Sometimes strangers stare at me. But if I stare back, they usually look away."
If you could give one piece of advice, what would it be?"
Be grateful for what you have. I always try to be grateful."
What are you most grateful for?"
My family."
Seen on the subway.
I tend to be cynical about a lot of things, but Maya Angelou is somebody that no matter how much I pick her apart, she still has integrity. She was a victim of incest and rape, and she worked as a stripper. And now she's a literary icon and Nobel Laureate. It goes to show that life is cumulative, and you can't devalue any type of experience."
I go to an all girls school, so there always seems to be a lot of drama."
Drama about what?"
These days it always seems to originate from something that somebody tweeted or posted."
We grew up in the same building, just a few blocks from here." When did you first meet each other?" I was three. He was five." What's your first memory of him?" Him pulling up his eyelids to scare me in the hallway."
Seen in Midtown
Seen in Midtown
Make sure you get the hat. I'm all about the hat."
He teases me!"
I've got a whole stack of books in my cart. Most of them are advance copies. I know a place where they get thrown out."
How many books have you read?"
Thousands."
So why are you homeless?"
I've tried to work a job a bunch of times. But then I get sad, and then I get high, and things fall apart."
Normally I have to approach people for quotes. But this kid walked right up to me, held his certificate in the air, and screamed: I played at Carnegie Hall!"
So after my last post about $15 HONY books from Amazon and Barnes and Noble, messages began pouring into my inbox. They spoke of legendary coupon codes that would reduce the price of HONY books to $10.50. Nonsense, I thought. Those books are $15 wholesale. No company is going to take a bath like that.
But apparently it wasn’t nonsense. There was legit plunder to be had. (And I learned the definition of: ‘Loss Leader.’) And as word of this free plunder spread through the HONY diaspora, the pillaging commenced. We shot to the top of the rankings on both sites. I’ve never seen anything like this [merciless pillaging], said one seasoned Macmillan executive.
ANYWAY, I wasn’t planning on doing another book promo for a while. But plunder is plunder, and plunder must be pointed out. Until midnight tonight, there are below cost HONY books to be had. I tested the coupon codes this morning just to be sure. And they work. $10.50 books.
**UPDATE: Amazon is currently cleaned out, but there is a shipment on the way from the publisher, due early next week. You can lock in those books at current price.** 
AMAZON: Coupon Code: BOOKDEAL
BARNES AND NOBLE: Coupon Code: BFRIDAY30
While I was photographing the last post, a pigeon literally took a shit on my face.
This afternoon, in a small but festive ceremony in Washington Square Park, Ricky Syers presented Larry The Pigeon Guy with his own marionette. In response to the honor, Larry said: Oh shit!"
BREAKING: Yeti spotted on 3rd Avenue, heading south.
He emptied the entire clip into me. I spent two years in a rehab hospital."
Were there any ways that the shooting improved your life?"
Lots of ways, actually. It slowed me down. Things were going too fast for me. It got me off the street, made me a better father, and I've held down a job ever since."
Humans of New York

they are the most best humans to ever get tossed
in the cauldron
the long ladle of the tall witch
stirring and stirring
scraping it off the bottom
a handful of magic here
a pinch of the miraculous here
in the concrete world of right angles
the humans of new york
dream and chase the dream
they are the carrot
and they are the stick
and they are spell bound for heights
they are here
because they have flavor
and they are being moved by magic no one sees
but every one knows
each and all of them
are a distinct flavor
in how beautiful it is to be
a star
in the human universe
of new york magic
I'm the original John Lennon! I was born 18 months earlier."
In the spirit of Christmas, Hanukkah, and Capitalism, Barnes and Noble has marked HONY books down 50% nationwide, all weekend long. ($14.99) This freaked out Amazon, so they marked them down too. Pretty sure that's about the same price they get them from the publisher, so they are literally giving them away."

So, anyway, $14.99 HONY BOOKS at Barnes and Noble and Amazon. Guaranteed to be this season's Tickle-Me-Elmo, except you can't tickle it. Nowhere near as many people are going to buy it. And it's not Elmo.

AMAZON:
BARNES AND NOBLE:
I work so many hours at the factory. I need to find a way for my daughter to live a better life than me."
How do you do that?"
I'm not sure. No time to think about that."
I've had a lot of magic in my life."
Tell me something magic."
When they were young, my parents met an American couple in a sunday school in Shanghai. Over the years, they kept running into this same couple, as they traveled through different parts of the world. So they jokingly made a pact that their firstborn children would be married. Then my parents had me, and the other couple had a son. I didn't meet the man until late in life, when I was already deeply in love with another man. But I fell in love with him and we got married."
Wow, that is cool."
That's not even the craziest part. Want to hear the craziest part?"
Absolutely."
My husband had three previous engagements. And the morning we met, he was cooking three eggs, and each of them had double yolks."
I've been a nanny for 6 years."
Do you think you've heavily influenced the kids' personalities?"
I like to think so. I've tried to read to them as much as possible, and I've taken them to a lot of Broadway shows. I can't be sure exactly how much influence I've had. But I did turn around in the kitchen yesterday, and saw the oldest one standing like this."
So what separates a great barber from an average barber?"
Well, I can only speak from my own experience. But I learned a lot of rules in school, and I didn't really get good until I had the confidence to break them."
From the outside, Metal looks very aggressive and nonconformist. But that's just because we get all our aggression out in music, and not by doing some other shit. It's actually a very loving community. No matter where you're from, or how much money you make, a metalhead is a metalhead."
She won't talk to me until I get my shit together."
Who's she?"
Every man has a She."
It's for my Queer and Feminist Comparative Literature Theory class."
Let me write that down"
I took it more for the teacher than the class. My school was all-male until the sixties, and she was one of the first teachers at the women's college. She's really respected."
So what's one important thing she's taught you?"
 about how it's important for feminists to evaluate everyday occurrences. How even routine personal interactions are political. Everything is significant, and even little things have meaning."
Is it possible to see too much meaning in little things?"
Well, there does seem to be some people who go around looking for things to be angry about. But if the alternative is to be desensitized to how small things affect us, I think it's better to be overly sensitive."
I used to be the Director of the NBA Players' Union. Now I teach negotiation at NYU."
What's one thing that everyone can do to be a better negotiator?"
Listen first. It does you no good to blurt out your interests. Always find out what the other person wants."
I got malaria in Ghana."
I was raised to blame myself instead of accepting myself."
I find it really hard to feel a sense of accomplishment in retrospect. No matter what I achieve, my self-worth always seems to be tied to the next booking."
The motion of knitting isn't all that different from the motion of plugging away at your smartphone all day. Except knitting promotes focus, and the phone promotes distraction."
I feel like it's easy for individualism to turn into pretentiousness. I see that a lot in film school. I'm hoping to find a way to carve out my own identity, while remaining approachable."
I asked: What is your greatest struggle right now?"  He made a confused face and began speaking to his girlfriend in Thai. Then, suddenly understanding, he turned back to me and said:
English."
Today in microfashion
Well, shit.
I used to be a preschool teacher, but I got fired."
What happened?"
Well, I decided that I wanted to have a socially conscious class. So we learned about apartheid in South Africa. Then we learned about homelessness. Then we made mother's day cards for Trayvon Martin's mom. And I think the principal decided that it was too much for three and four year olds, because she told me I wasn't a "good fit.' But honestly, I was just shining too bright for them. And now she's going to see me on Humans of New York, and she'll be sorry!"
Today in microfashion
Seen in the subway.
What's the most frightened you've ever been?"
Elementary school."
Why's that?"
Nuns."
My name is Pretty Tony, Macaroni."
I'm having some trouble with my friends."
Why's that?"
I think we're just reaching the age when everyone realizes that everyone talks behind each other's backs."
We just came back from a concert. She crowd surfed twice! She lost her wallet, but we found a Nintendo DS!"
I had my photo taken with Michelle Obama, but they never gave me the picture. And nobody believes me!"



Thanks to "White Bear' for this gem. On a side note, I love that I don't even have to request photoshop submissions anymore.
I grew up on a rice farm in Guyana. We didn't have running water or electricity, or anything like that. I didn't come to America until I was 14. My friend has been struggling lately because she can't get a job she wants, even though she's really talented. She's lived in New York her whole life and hasn't travelled very much, and she said to me: "I don't understand why anyone would want to immigrate to America.' I told her:
Trust me if there's a heaven, this is it.'"
I was studying business but I recently switched to biological sciences."
Why the switch?"
Because I like trees. And animals."
What's your favorite animal?"
Penguins."
Why's that?"
Because they're cute. And fluffy."
I had my photo taken with Michelle Obama, but they never gave me the picture. And nobody believes me!"
It's important to tell your child "no.' I want him to be prepared when life tells him 'no.'"
When has life told you 'no'?"
I'm an African-American female raised in Harlem. Life has always told me 'no.' It tried to say 'no' when I wanted to own my own business. And now I own three."
I've got four kids pointing at me and calling me Daddy. Not one of them are mine."
It's for my brother. He got killed on a jet ski on the 4th of July. He was hanging off the back when his friend drove into a bridge. The last time I talked to him, we were arguing. It was something stupid. I'd loaned him money for rent, and he was taking too long to pay it back. So I started screaming at him. And he just walked out the door."
He's very attached."
I try to conserve my energy."
How do you mean?"
Everybody is always wasting their energy on being against other people. They like to say "I'm against this,' or 'I'm against that.' I say a lot of prayers when I wake up in the morning. But one of the prayers I always say is: 'God, please send me someone that I can help today.'"
It's a Spaghetti Monster pin."
How would you describe the Spaghetti Monster?"
It's a semi-serious, semi-parody religion. If you substitute the word "Spaghetti Monster' for the word God, it exposes religion to critical thinking. Because of the cultural reverence for the word 'God,' so much of religion flies under the radar of critical thinking. But if you think about it the word 'God' is just a noise we make, just like 'Spaghetti Monster' is a noise. Both are placeholders for a concept, and neither is more valid than the other. The whole point of the Spaghetti Monster is not necessarily to say that God isn't real, but to point out the flaws in our conceptualization of him."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?"
If something can be destroyed by truth, it should be."
I like that. Where'd it come from?"
I'm not sure exactly. But it's really just another way of stating the scientific method. We shouldn't be clinging to hypotheses that are contradicted by observation."
I have ten cats. They live outside, and I have been protecting them for seven years."
What's the most frightened you've ever been?"
I once fell down a well in Vermont. It was 25 feet down and the water was freezing, plus it was too deep to stand. I was down there for 45 minutes with nothing to hold on to but a pipe. Luckily my neighbor finally heard me screaming, because I'd guess I had about 15 minutes left."
Wow. So did you reflect on your life at all down there?"
No. I was trying to get out of the well."
I came from China one year ago."
What's been your lowest moment since arriving?"
No one moment. Just nights alone, not with parents, not with friends, sitting in room, thinking about nothing, smoking cigarettes."
My parents had sent me to a small village outside of Paris because they thought it would be safer. But I guess there were hidden munition stocks out there, because the Americans bombed the village. They flew very high. The British always flew low they had the fighters, but the Americans flew very high and dropped the bombs. They were bombs filled with air. I don't know how to describe it. You were killed by the air. The neighbor was killed. I spent all night hiding in the barn."
I played semi-pro football for a couple years. The 1967 Long Island Jets. I got my ass kicked."
What was your greatest moment of football glory?
Well, I was 190 lbs, and everybody else on the team was 250. So I pretty much only played special teams. But I was a third-string defensive lineman too. And one game we were up by 40 points, so they put me in the game. And our linebacker— Eddie, real mean guy— called me over and said: ‘Right before they hike the ball, spit on the center’s hand.’ I said: ‘What?’ And he said: ‘Trust me. Just spit on him.’ So right before they hiked the ball, I spit on the guy’s hand. And he immediately stood up to punch me, and Eddie comes running in and knocks the guy clean off his feet, then he sacks the quarterback. That was probably my greatest contribution.
I came over from Greece when I was 17 and started out working in a market. I worked so much that I supported my mother, my father, and put my brother through college. Now my kids have everything, and don't appreciate anything. You Americans cut em' off when they're 18. And that's probably for the best. But we can't do that, cause we're Greek. They're ours until they're married."
It’s an English assignment."
English?
Yeah. We had to build a robot and then write an essay about what it can do.
So what does your robot do?
‘It’s supposed to help the elderly with everything that they can’t do themselves.
No English."
Dots are so hot this Fall.
Us Bengalis are expected to keep in touch with all of our family members, no matter how distantly related. So pretty much every day we are skyping with a new relative. Then at the end of the month, we start over again."
I tell my daughters they need a college education so that they can have a career, and not a job. Because I've got two jobs, and they still don't add up to a career."
He started out explaining that his mom was not ordinary, because she listens to hip hop."  Then I asked him what he wanted to be when he grew up.
A graffiti artist,"  he said.
What's the toughest part about being a graffiti artist?"  I asked.
Running from the cops,"  said Mom.
They were from Tibet, and every single one of them was named Yengkey. At first I thought they were tricking me. But after they dispersed, I shouted Yengkey!"  And eight heads turned around.***

***EDIT***
I'm having a realization about a pretty funny mistake I made. The older girl was the only one who spoke English fluently. She told me their name was Tenzin."  And they were a team, like The Yankees."  I asked how to spell her name. And she told me Yengkey."  I assumed this was a phonetically unfamiliar way of spelling Tenzin, that was unique to Tibet. Now I realize she was spelling Yankee.
My wife and I have been married 16 years."
Children?"
Nope."
Any particular reason?"
I was just never sure I wanted to have a child. And I always thought that with a decision that big, it was better not to guess and be wrong. I've just always had this anxiety about fulfilling myself and accomplishing my dreams. I love kids, and I love my friends' kids, but I just didn't think there'd be room in my life for a child. Some of the parents I know think that not having a child is a selfish decision to make. But then again, a lot of those same people, after two or three beers, have told me that they envy my freedom."
He can come over to my house anytime!"
I always thought delivering mail would be easy. But it's really hard work to keep up with your schedule. Because the way they calculate time in the office is not how it happens on the street."
What's your greatest struggle right now?"
Math."
What's the hardest part of math?"
The numbers."
I got pregnant when I was 19."
Is the dad still in the picture?"
Yes. He's actually so in the picture that he's never around, because he is always working."
Did you guys get married?"
Not yet. We decided to wait on that until we could afford a wedding. Just because we had an unconventional baby, it doesn't mean that I don't deserve a traditional wedding. I'm waiting on my fancy little ring, and I want to wear my mama's dress down the aisle."
America is good. But Egypt is home."
I can beat him up."
I got out of prison a month ago."
What were you in for?"
Selling drugs."
So what are you doing now that you're out?"
Trying to be an average Joe. But it's tough. I was used to having all this money, now I can't buy a thing. Nobody wants to hire me. I've got tattoos. I've got a rap sheet. I feel like I'm in this giant hole and I don't know how to climb out."
What are the flowers for?"
My friend gave them to me to cheer me up."
Why did you need cheering up?"
It's been a rough week for several reasons. It began with me crying while reading a poem in front of a bunch of people."
What was the poem about?"
It was about my best friend attempting suicide in my house, then me having an abortion a few years later, then that same friend successfully committing suicide, then me getting pregnant. It's sort of my reflection on the cyclical nature of life. And how we are a lot more connected than we understand or admit. The poem is titled: "I realized last night that, for the first time in my life, I am finally really willing to be an organ donor.'



Sweet sixteen One summer afternoon, about out the door for family dinner at Outback Steakhouse. Went to check on my bestie Jenie, staying with me for the summer, kicked out of her own house again, one more time. I had a feeling. Are you sure you don't want to come with us? I said, peeking into the top bunk of my little brothers bed. No response. Motionless, unconscious. I ran to my auntie, doctor frances, downstairs. She'll be okay,"  said doctor frances. We called the ambulance anyway. She'll be okay, said doctor frances, again, after they wheeled Jenie away on a stretcher. Jenie went to icu, had her stomach pumped, went to rehab after that.

We pretty much pretended nothing had happened.

Time passed. Lots of things happened.

One winter afternoon, the ripe age of 22, my mom dropped me off at a portland clinic, 10th floor of an office building. babies are expensive,"  my single-father boyfriend had said. i took his word for it, and took the valium and the vicodin from the nurse, listened to them read me quotes from other girls in my condition about how happy they were with their choice. I lied back on the table, sucked in the nitrous greedily as the doctor sucked out my unwanted growth,"  as they called it. youre so calm, "  the doctor said to me. They sent me to a recovery room" - and lying in the bed, looking at the poster of the Eiffel Tower at sunset on the wall above me, and the rainy grey oregon sunset sky out the window beyond, I knew I had just given away any good karma I had gained by saving my best friend's life 6 years before.


A January evening in Istanbul, on the couch, totally stoned on afghani hash with my second Turkish boyfriend, I picked up a phone call from old friend Melinda, now married with 2 kids in Spokane Washington. She sounded far away. I knew something was weirdwe hadn't talked in years. Dane went back to Vegas for a few days to finish a job,"  she began. Dane, Jennie's high school crush , and new husband. Jenie stayed in portland, in their new house with their two dogs. When her dad went over to say hi, check on her, he found her in the garage, in the front seat of her 4 runner. It had stopped running by then run out of gas.
The dogs are okay, though."
I couldn't afford to fly back for the funeral. My little brother stood in my stead, scattered some flowers on her casket.

And now, here I am at 31, 37 and a half weeks pregnant. Round 2.
from march 4th onward, This new life inside me, a whole second self, spontaneously generating, it seems, organizing itself around some miracle principles. I felt it from the very beginning, the very moment of first meiosis.
Really, like a veil dropped, or lifted, or something. I was walking across a field at a spa outside Poughkeepsie and I felt the shift. It was wild.
Life is wild. Death is something else.

So I'd like to take this opportunity to declare
I'm finally willing to be an organ donor. I never was before. but i can surely say if it comes down to it I am ready to give the pieces of me to others. Take my kidneys, take my heart, take my myopic eyes

The lines around the self, the borders between you and me aren't as obvious as they may seem

We are all connected. Some more obviously than others

So please, Take what you can from me
Bury the rest at sea, someday

It all comes back around eventually.
Seen in Ridgewood
You may approach the throne.
It's a constant hustle."
It's kinda weird having a child of my own, because I'm seeing all the things that my father missed."
I want to be a designer."
Why's that?"
They make a lot of money. And it's like, technology."
The. sky. is. blue. and. you. are. NOT. it."
The police is always against us."
I worked in mutual funds for most of my life, but I'm in the ministry now."
Why the switch?"
Well, I grew up in The Faith. Then I ended up working on Wall Street. And I actually enjoyed the work a lot. For me it was less about the money and more about the excitement and buzz of going to work everyday. I enjoyed making deals and getting things done. But in the end, I just missed God."
She keeps me from judging good people. I keep her from trusting bad people."
We met online six months ago. But we just met in person a few days ago. She came into the city for my birthday, and she's about to get on the train back home."
How much did you guys talk online during those six months?"
A lot."
How much is a lot?"
Pretty much all the time. But if one of us had something to do, we could give each other space and go awhile without talking."
How long is awhile?"
Two or three hours."
Both my kids will have graduated from college in 4.5 years, and I'm heading to Mexico. I'm not kidding. Social Security goes a long way down there. For $300 a week, I could have a place to stay, a satellite dish, a fishing pole, and some rum."
He puts up with my nasty attitude."
It's not nasty. It could just sometimes be less negative."
We got married at a protest. We think alike. And we party alike."
I just had dinner with my professor, he's trying to help me get more focused."
Focused how?"
He thinks that all the extracurriculars I'm doing, like Student Government and things like that, are serving as a stalling tactic to keep me from figuring out what I really want to do."
What was the happiest moment of your life?"
Well I can tell you a moment of really simple joy. I was squatting down in New Orleans, living off donations, and one day I was able to obtain ice, lemons, and sugar all at the same time. So I had lemonade for the entire day."
Why were you squatting in New Orleans?"
It was right after Katrina hit. I was twenty years old, in the midst of a righteous political phase, and I didn't really have plans for the summer. So I said: "Racist shit is happening in New Orleans! I've got to get down there!'"
My mom had me when she was really young. We always had more of a friendship than a mother-daughter relationship. You know, I'd always talk to her about my friends and my issues, things like that. I've always been really free to speak my mind. But now that I'm older, and I'm discovering more and more things that I disagree with her about, she doesn't think I respect her enough."
I've been out of rehab for three months."
Was it your first time?"
Yep."
What caused you to finally get help?"
It had literally become a matter of life and death. I'd been to the emergency room a couple of times. Plus drinking had completely ruined my marriage."
How so?"
Drinking made me really shady. I wasn't even communicating with my wife anymore. I'd go to work for 15 hours, come home, drink, and go to bed. It's like we weren't even in a relationship we were just roommates."
When I was younger, I was terrified of being abducted by aliens."
When did you outgrow it?"
I never really did."
It's important to be open."
Open to what?"
Changes in your life, mainly. I've always been a planner. So it's very difficult for me to handle things that don't go as planned. But I'm learning to accept that unplanned events even negative ones, can lead to positive changes."
What happened that you weren't planning for?"
Well, I didn't marry the man I thought I was going to marry."
Why not?"
He cheated and had a kid. We had a house and everything. But you know what? That horrible event created a domino effect that brought me to New York, and introduced me to a new life, and a new group of friends that I never would have known otherwise."
Seen on 5th Avenue
We hiked up a mountain and slept in a cabin for Cub Scouts."
What's one thing you learned in Cub Scouts that you think everyone should know?"
You have to be brave and do your duty to get a Tiger Badge."
New York kicked my ass."
They say that you're supposed to stand up to bullies, but there's not much you can do when the whole class is like that."
Why do they make fun of you?"
Let's see. My weight, obviously. The fact that I read for fun. Mostly sci-fi and fantasy. I watch Nova. I don't like sports. You know those loud, obnoxious kids you see hanging out in groups, screaming at people? That's my whole school."
So what do they do to you?"
Just yell at me and throw stuff at me. But I am proud of one thing. Most kids who get picked on completely spaz out at some point, and get violent. That hasn't happened to me yet."
I was leaving a diner on the west side when I noticed this woman crouched alongside the cash register, clutching some sort of electronic reindeer toy.
Why are you hiding?"  I asked.
I've been coming here for 27 years,"  she said. The manager doesn't like my singing animals. So I like to haunt him!"
What do you want to be when you grow up?"
Taller!"
I'm tripping out."
My girlfriend and I were friends for a long time before we started dating."
What's the toughest part of that kind of relationship?"
Probably just starting it. Most relationships just start out fast and go. When you start dating a friend, you basically have to sit down one day and talk about logistics."
My swim coach outed me to my entire team in college."
What happened?"
It was freshman year. I hadn't come out to my dad yet. I'd come out to my mom, but it didn't go well. Then one day my swim coach came up to me at a meet, and said: "There's something I want you to tell me before the meet is over. And I think you know what it is.' So I told him. And he said: 'I don't want things to get weird in the locker room, so let's keep this between us.' Then I went home, took a nap, and when I woke up, I had an email from another person on the team. He told me the coach had called a team meeting and told everyone."
What happened?"
I called the coach, and he immediately started yelling at me. He was saying things, like 'It's my team. Don't tell me how to run my team.' He was really intense. He was like The Coach in New England swimming at the time. I kept trying to get off the phone, but he kept screaming at me. Then when I finally got off the phone, he showed up on my doorstep. He made me tell him who told me about the meeting. Then he made me get in the car with him, drove me to my teammate's house, and started yelling at both of us. He started accusing us of being lovers."
Jesus."
I know. I quit swimming after that year, and never swam again."
Are you an artist?"
Divorce lawyer."
He started off by telling me about his love of theater, and how he'd once won an award for his role in a musical. All of this was said in a very sing-songy, theatrical voice. There seemed to be a piece of him that was always performing. At some point, I abruptly changed the topic, and asked: Is there a particular memory that comes to mind when you think of your youth?"
Running outside without a watch,"  he answered.
I like that!"  I said. He sensed that he'd captured the interest of his audience, and lapsed back into full theater mode.
With nothing to tell the time but the sun!"  he said, looking up at the sky. And nothing to call you home but the moon!"
I want to be a nurse."
My parents had me late in life, so my dad is 78 now. Kinda hard to be this young and watch them go that way already."

Also, moment of appreciation for the girl who didn't give a shit about being photographed in the Erotica section.
What was the saddest moment of your life?"
Probably when I got arrested after a bar fight in Vegas."
What was the fight about?"
I don't even remember."
Do you remember the most frightened you've ever been?"
Probably when I had a gun pulled on me in Canada."
What happened?"
I think it started with us trying to pull a tree out of the ground, and ended in us chanting USA! USA! Then somebody pulled out a gun."
I'm noticing a pattern."
Yeah, same group of guys."
So out of all the amazing things that have happened, and there have been a lot, one of the coolest had to be seeing my photos spread across the front page of The Arts section in today's Times. Was quite charmed by the article. Very well written, and I think it really captured the spirit of HONY:




Plus I got a sweet quote for the cover of the book:

Passable photography skills." The New York Times
I played Double A ball for the Yankees back in the Dominican Republic."
Did you think you'd make the majors?"
Oh yeah. I had the best bat, best legs, and best glove on the team. But I got in a motorcycle accident when I was 21. It destroyed my leg. My brother was driving and I was riding on the back of the bike. And we hit a truck. One mistake by my brother, and look at me now. But at least I'm alive. And I coach a little league team now. We've got some real aces on that team. Manny Rivera has nothing on some of these kids. This year we won a big tournament in Massachusetts."
My dog always seemed to be staring at something, so I wrote a book about him and his imaginary friend."
Dear Brandon,

My HONY book arrived in Pakistan today. Though it was five months late, it was my favorite birthday present of the year.

In a country where people fight for survival everyday, I'm one of the fortunate few whose biggest worry right now is getting through medical school. In my part of the world, people like me, no matter how much we try to deny it, live in a bubble. And our problems are called first world problems."  Maybe it will surprise people to see a Pakistani"  so in touch with the Western World. To see something other than the hatred that the world seems to notice radiating from here. But in my little bubble here in Pakistan, I find inspiration in the stories shared on Humans of New York, because they depict more than what the common man perceives. Yes, Pakistan as a nation suffers more than the rest, we do have a billion and one problems, but HONY reminds me that above everything else we are individuals. That just how every Pakistani is not the same, neither is every American. It reminds me to love and respect everybody something many people here tend to have forgotten. The pictures and stories on HONY almost always make me feel like anything is possible.

Thank you,
Sakina
My greatest struggle is trying to support my mom and sisters back in Jamaica. I try to send money back every month, but sometimes I just can't do it after I've paid my bills. They really depend on the money, because my stepfather is a farmer and a lot of times the crops aren't good. A lot of people back home think that money comes easy in America. They don't know how hard it is."
I graduated from Juilliard recently, and just earned a trial with the London Symphony."
Was there ever a time when you wanted to quit?"
It was harder when I was younger, and all my friends were outside playing. Back then my Mom really kept me practicing. But then I hit a point where I began to love the instrument, and I really couldn't imagine my life without it."
How did you know when you reached that point?"
I guess it was the point where I'd learned enough that I realized how much more there was to learn."
I wish that when I was young, I'd have absorbed more of the world. And less of my world."
I'm looking for a little inspiration."
What kind of inspiration?"
I'm illustrating a book. The main character is a "celebrated woman' in the town. And this woman seemed to fit that description to me."
What's your largest remaining goal in life?"
I'd love to teach a course in art history."
So what would you say is the purpose of art?"
Well, art is a means of expression, of course. But it's also a means of record. If you look at the earliest artists, their art was a way for them to say: "I was here.'"
My girlfriend and I aborted a child a couple of weeks ago."
I'm sorry for your loss."
We didn't lose anything. It was a choice."
Were both of you equally on board with the decision?"
She followed my lead, which made it tougher I guess. But I've got so much going on right now, and she just opened her own theater show. It's just not the right time."
How's the aftermath been?"
You know, I always thought of abortion as a common thing. I'm a liberal guy. Pro-choice and everything. But I never imagined how bloody painful it was going to be."
Do you mind if I post your story?"
With my picture? I'd prefer not."
I'm trying to grow old with dignity, but it's difficult."
What's difficult about it?"
I don't want to be a burden to anyone. But I spent the 45 most vigorous years of my life paying no heed to retirement, and now I'm running out of "working years,' and I'm way behind."


What's the most frustrating part about being teacher?" I think it's getting increasingly difficult to convince my students that what I'm teaching is relevant to their lives. They see a world where the path to success is much more muddled, and social skills are beginning to seem more important than academics. It's hard to instill the importance of memorization when information is so freely and instantly available."






I carry a journal with me to collect data for my music." How do you collect data for music?" I just write down anything that catches my ear. For example, yesterday I heard my roommate's daughter sing: "Row, row, row your boat, gently down the STREET.' She messed up the song, but I thought it'd make a good lyric, so I wrote it down."
When I finished taking their photo, they waved goodbye. At the exact same time.
I'm from Nigeria. I'm in a band with a guy from Algeria and a guy from Turkey. So we sing in Yoruba, Arabic, Turkish, and English."
My first memory was when I was three years old. My dad set me up on the dresser, and said: "Jump to daddy!' Then he let me fall and said, 'Don't trust anyone.' He was twisted like that. I'm pretty sure that's why I'm a loner."
This man was sitting across from me on the subway, holding what appeared to be a spine. I asked if he was a chiropractor. I'm a lawyer,"  he said. I'm coming back from court." How'd it go?"  I asked.Not too good,"  he answered, laughing. My client lied to me. She told me she didn't go back to work after her injury. Turned out that wasn't true." Then another man who was sitting nearby joined our conversation. He began to tell the lawyer about his own legal problems. He was apparently involved in a personal injury lawsuit of his own, stemming from a fall he took from the top of a bunk bed, during a stint at a rehab facility. As the man unloaded the details of his case, the lawyer heard him out, giving sympathetic nods and doling out vague expressions of support. The man left thinking that the lawyer agreed with him 100%.The lawyer and I got off at the same stop. After we left the train, I asked: So what did you think about that man's case?" It's awful,"  he said. But I didn't want to break his heart."
I just try to have fun." What's the most fun you've ever had?" Can't talk about it. I'm still waiting on my court date."
Sold!
I am one of the officers in this picture. My friend found it in your book and pointed it out to me. The victim under the sheet was a woman in her late fifties. She was Miss Austria in her early 20's and a contestant in the Miss World pageant. At the time of her death she was destitute and alone, but still carried her passport with a photo of her at the peak of her beauty. She was stunning. On October 22nd of last year, wandering the halls of the building she had chosen for her last act, she had looked for an open window at the record company that produces Maroon Five. Asked to leave, she found one a floor above in a hallway, took sleeping pills, sat on the ledge in the sunlight for about ten minutes, then leaned forward. Anyway, thanks for the photo. It is one of those souvenirs of one's life that come to be valuable because it has unexpectedly captured a moment of you doing your life's work, genuine and unrehearsed.
I'm having a birthday at The Plaza!"

Photo is one of 75 exclusives from the #1 NYT Bestselling HONY Book.Available wherever books are sold.
AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND: 






I made it myself!"
What are you supposed to be?"
I'm dangerous!"
Seen in the subway.
Seen in Union Square.
My parents got divorced a couple of months ago."
Has your view of the situation changed since then?"
I guess I've just realized that if two people both agree that they'd be happier living apart, then maybe it's better for everybody."
Seen on the subway.
Like many people, I was first introduced to Colonel Chris Hadfield when I saw a photo of NYC come into my newsfeed, taken from the International Space Station. I've been following him ever since, as he inspired millions with the wonders of space by combining social media and, well, OUTER SPACE. Watching a shuttle launch is great,"  explains Hadfield, But it's more entertainment than inspiration. For the first time, social media allowed people to come along with us, and experience space like an astronaut. I had the honor of meeting Mr. Hadfield while he was in New York, doing interviews surrounding his new book, available here:-(Internal dialogue: Do I call him Chris? Colonel? Mr. Hadfield? I'm gonna blow it! I'm blowing it!" )What's the most frightened you ever felt in space?" Honestly, very little happened that I wasn't prepared for. Astronauts prepare for everything. You'd be amazed at all the things we train for. Specialization is for insects. Humans have to be generalists and astronauts especially. Before the mission, I actually studied with a dentist in case I needed to surgically extract a tooth. So I never felt very afraid because I'd prepared for everything. But if I was to give an answer one time we were coming across the Indian Ocean, and I was looking down at Australia. And a shooting star passed below us. A big one. A shooting star came between us and the world. And I thought: "Oh man, we really are floating around in an aluminum bubble up here.'" What did you miss the most while you were in space?" If you don't mind me using a euphemism physical contact. Have you met my wife?"
Today in microfashion
In what has instantly become one of my most prized possessions: a photo of me, Chris Hadfield, and David Karp dressed like a piece of bacon.
One time I was in Saks Fifth Avenue, and I got in an elevator. There was a woman already in there. She had selected the seventh floor, but when I got in with her, she changed it to the second floor."
How'd that make you feel?"
Like I didn't belong."
This store pays a lot of money to have these windows washed. And my boss just gives me a little of it."
So I made an announcement last night when we hit our $26,000 goal. (In exactly 60 minutes). Afterwards, I wanted to be sure that the Watkins family didn't get inflated expectations, so I gave them a call. This pace won't keep up,"  I told them. We're pretty much where we're going to be. Crowdfund campaigns tend to die off really quickly once the goal is reached. Boy am I an idiot. Looks like I had no idea what I was talking about, and Duane and Kristen will have significantly less to worry about when it comes to saving for their children's education. They are, of course, desperate to show their gratitude. They said they didn't know how to show everyone enough appreciation, and asked if I had any ideas. I think I spoke for all of us when I answered: Honestly, everyone won here. I think we were all just thankful for the opportunity to participate in such an awesome story." I'll be sure to keep everyone updated.
When I discovered this young woman, she was sitting on a nearby bench. A video camera was resting beside her, aimed at the tree/boulder sculpture.
She said that she was studying to be a sculptor. Our teacher gave us an assignment,"  she said. We are supposed to sit and observe a sculpture for four hours. But I couldn't just sit here, so I decided to do more."
She pulled out a thick stack of charts and diagrams. I've been collecting quotes from people who walk by, counting how many people read the official description, and charting where people accumulate to view it."  In addition to these, she had several other sketches and drawings made from different angles.
I was inspired by her devotion to a single piece of art. So what do you like about it?"  I asked. 
I'm not sure what I like about it,"  she said. But I can tell you what I think about it. Thinking is different than liking."
So what do you think about it?"
Well, most New Yorkers have grown accustomed to the tall buildings, so they tend to contrast the sculpture with the surrounding trees, and they observe the difference between the organic and inorganic. But I'm new to New York, so I compare it to all the rigid, manmade, vertical buildings. And I note their similarities. And I also love how it plays with gravity."
I left my true love in the Dominican Republic when I was very young. My family was leaving for Puerto Rico. I ended up marrying a man who did not treat me well, and moving to America. My true love is married now as well. I still talk to him, but we cannot be together. It is impossible. Maybe when we die, it will be possible. I hope that we die at the same time." What was the greatest day you ever spent together?" She laughed, looked down, and said: A week before I left the Dominican Republic, he said to me: "If you don't come to the hotel with me, I will kill myself.'"
It's Chopin." Why Chopin?" My whole arm is covered with things that remind me of Poland."
I majored in English and Philosophy, and minored in Religious Studies."
Awesome, so what are you doing now?"
I work at an office supply e-retailer."
When I called to tell her what was happening, I was met with silence. We've been together long enough that I knew to just let her cry."  -Duane
I was riding in a van with a television crew who was doing a piece on HONY. The cameraman, Duane, was behind the wheel. At one point he casually remarked on how bad the traffic was in Ethiopia.Ethiopia?"  I asked. What story were you working on there?" It wasn't a story,"  he replied. We were picking up our daughter.He then told me the most amazing story. He told me that he and his wife were not able to conceive. But I’d always resisted the idea of adoption, he said. My wife wanted to adopt right away, but I was just never sure if I’d be able to fully love a child that wasn’t my blood. So time went on, and they remained childless. Then one evening Duane was watching a television show with his wife. The show was about aid work in Ethiopia. They were showing before-and-after photos, he explained. I remember this one girl. She was skin and bones. But she still had this amazing smile and spirit in her eyes. The aid workers rehabilitated her, and six months later, she looked like a normal little girl. Right then, I turned to my wife, and said: ‘I’m ready to adopt.’ But it wasn’t as easy as he’d hoped. At first I thought we needed an infant, Duane explained. I just couldn't imagine missing out on all those early moments of our child's life."  But for healthy infants, the waiting list was years. So then we went we moved up to three or four year olds. But still, the waiting list was one to two years. The only children you could get immediately were seven and up, and who had physical handicaps of some sort. I just didn’t think I was ready for it.But then Duane and his wife went on vacation. And toward the end of the trip, after a few drinks, Duane’s wife brought out a brochure from the adoption agency. One of the pictures showed an unsmiling seven year old girl, standing against the pink wall of an orphanage. She had been blinded in one eye. That’s our daughter, Duane said. Three years later after the Watkins adopted her, Chaltu has blossomed. She has grown over one foot, is fluent in English, and although blind in one eye, plays soccer, gymnastics, and basketball. She’s doing great at school, and has tons of friends. She is the greatest daughter in the world, Duane said.That's an unbelievable story, I told Duane. Can I share it on HONY?That’s fine with me, he answered. Then he sort of stared at the ground for a second, shuffled his feet, and asked: Would there be any possibility that you could help us raise the adoption fees to get her a brother? We've already found him, but aren't financially ready yet.LET'S BRING RICHARD HOME:  


I'm trying to help my kids find their way." What's the most difficult part of that?" Letting them fail."
There’s no better feeling than seeing the lightbulb go on. To know that there’s a new idea in a child’s head, and that you’re the one that put it there. But if any teacher is being honest, they will tell you that there is a small percentage of students that no matter how many times you go over something, they just won’t get it. And it burns you out. If you’re emotionally invested and if you aren’t emotionally invested, you’re not doing it right but if you are, it can burn you out.
Yoda has detected a disturbance in The Force.
I want to be a pilot."
What's the toughest part about being a pilot?"
Landing."
I perform in angle grinder shows."
What are those?"
I put on a metal outfit, then I grind the metal off it so that sparks shoot everywhere. Most of the time there are naked chicks involved."
I'm retired now. But I was the CEO of the NY State Energy Research and Development Authority." What's something about energy that a lot of people don't know?" Energy is the main source of pollution. I don't think enough people make that connection. They think of pollution as giant industries spewing smoke into the air, but in reality it mainly comes from the energy that we use everyday driving our cars, lighting our houses, even that camera you're using. We're never going to stop needing energy, so we just have to find the most efficient ways of creating it."
Today in microfashion
I'm working on my PhD in English, with a focus on poetry."
So how would you define a good poem?"
It's a good poem if I'm a different person when I'm finished reading it."
It's not a good story."
Oh, c'mon. What happened?"
I fell on a sidewalk."
Were you pushed? Were there people around?"
nope, just fell."
I'm in marketing."
If I had it all to do over again, I wouldn't change a thing."
Brandon,

I have been in the army now for just over five years and I am currently on my second deployment to Afghanistan. My copy of HONY finally made it to my tiny base in the mountains of Afghanistan. I don’t think anyone has ever been this happy while stationed over here. Your pictures are always the high light of my day. Sending you my thanks and love from across the world.

Ashli Bonner



AMAZON:
BARNES AND NOBLE:
INDIEBOUND:
I caught these two just as they were leaving the opera. What did you go see?"  I asked the boy.
A Midsummer's Night Dream,"  he answered.
How was it?"  I asked. I could sense his hesitation, so I started ribbing him a bit. Tell the truth."  A few more seconds of silence. The truth,"  I repeated. He looked up nervously at his dad, then back at me, then back up at his dad.
Don't worry, you can tell the truth,"  said his dad.
Not too exciting,"  he finally answered.
Robin smells a crime.
Due to some pesky laws and permit requirements, the 15 foot tall Christopher Walken HONYsaurus Rex was unable to be unveiled at the book signing. However, it currently stands in all it's glory on the corner of 2nd Ave and Houston. It will be viewable for the rest of today, and all day tomorrow. Eat your heart out, Banksy.
My father died rather suddenly. He had a rare condition called pulmonary fibrosis, and he had a double lung transplant. He seemed to be recovering perfectly, and everyone was very optimistic, but then the day that he came home from the hospital, he died."
Did he talk with you about the possibility of death?"
That was probably the greatest tragedy. He never came to terms with it. You hear of some people achieving peace in their final days, but he was terrified of dying until the very end. He got increasingly anxious as he got sicker, and tried all sorts of alternative cures. He felt very cheated by life. He was always so careful about being healthy. He'd been a vegetarian his entire life. It all seemed very unfair."
It's amazing how little ability we have to shape the lives of our children. You do what you can, but their personalities are predominantly formed by the times they live in, their friends, and other influences. Parenting is sort of like pulling back the lever of a pinball machine, and just letting the ball fly."
What was the happiest moment of your life?"
When I got hit by a car."
When you got hit by a car?"
They gave me $16,000."
She told me she was trying to be more open about her feelings. I'm open with my opinions,"  she said. But not my feelings. Especially with people close to me."
What feelings specifically?"  I asked.

Then her girlfriend came and sat next to her.
And I never found out. :)
This woman was sitting across from me last night on the subway, working intently on a crossword puzzle. The man next to her leaned in, and said: Can I help you?"
Not if you want to be my friend,"  she said. One time I spent all day on one of these things, and the motherfucker next to me shouted out the last answer."
I tried to give him a tip, but he waved me off. I'm just blessing people with my music,"  he said. Afterwards another confused man walked up, searched for a bucket, then just ended up laying his dollar on top of the closed case.
If any of you drove by the Brooklyn Navy Yards at 6 PM last night, you may have seen a grown man sobbing in an empty parking lot. It completely blindsided me. I'd been watching O'Reilly's numbers the last couple weeks, and they were so incredibly high that I'd written this off as a possibility. It was a miracle, really. Thanks to every single one of you. We made this happen by the skin of our teeth, and every. single. book. counted. I'm deliriously happy to present, The #1 New York Times Bestselling Humans of New York.
I'm an interactive designer."
You mean websites?"
Well, yes, but I'm also interested in installations and physical computing."
So how would you describe good design?"
I try to design a playful experience for the user."
How do you do that? By being playful?"
Oh no. It's a painful process to make something playful."
In 1969, my parents were sent to the countryside as part of the Cultural Revolution. Ask anyone from China, they will know what I'm talking about. I was only eight years old, and I lived alone in my house for three years. There was one other girl with me. She was eleven, and her parents had also been sent away. Nothing really seems like a struggle compared to that. I worked three jobs when I first moved here, while going to school. But even then it seemed like the hard days were behind me."
She'd never tell you, but she's an acclaimed documentary filmmaker. She's documenting civil disobedience in Palestine."
Cool. So tell me something about civil disobedience."

Nonviolent disobedience is strategic for many reasons. One, it's an important way to attract attention and compassion from the international community. Also, it's the only type of response that can include the entire community. Violence is more exclusive, and can only happen in pockets. Nonviolence can involve everyone, and can help leave behind a sense of community after the objectives of the disobedience have been met."
This is our father. He lived in New York for twenty years, so we're taking him back on a vacation."
What's your father's best quality?"
I'd say his joy in scientific discovery, and his joy of sharing it with others. He was a chemical engineer at Mobil, and when we were growing up, he'd always be pointing out birds and rocks and salamanders to the neighborhood kids. Especially that one critter that lived in the hills, and made all those little holes, what was that called?"

Then the old man, who had to this point been silent, said: Trapdoor spider."
My dad owned a watch factory. He wasn't a "play catch' kind of dad, and was never around too much. But I think I learned a lot just by watching him."
What's something you learned?"
He had unlimited patience. He stayed calm no matter what. When the switch was made to quartz movement, mechanical watches took a big hit, and he lost his factory. All his investors pulled out and he lost millions. He went to work for an old friend, and we had to move from Central Park South to Queens. But I never knew that we'd been rich until I was much older. Even when he lost all that money, his demeanor never changed."
I've got an interview tomorrow at Mt. Sinai. I'm trying to get into their medical program."
What's the most frustrating thing about the human body?"
That there's so much we don't know about it. Studying the human brain is like staring into outer space."
Today in microfashion
I'm learning to deal with negative feelings, like envy."
What are you envious of?"
Normal stuff. Women with more successful careers, things like that. I'm finding that if you try to resist your envy, it sticks around. But if you accept it as natural, and don't judge yourself, it will pass, like a cloud."
Just make sure you don't put me on a porno site. Actually, you can even do that. I don't care."
I have a special needs child in 5th grade. Things have been OK so far, but I'm afraid that once he goes to middle school, there will be things that I can't protect him from."
I was afraid that I wouldn't have the tolerance to be a parent. But it's amazing how you find the energy."
Do you mind if I take your photo?"
I'm late for a show. You can try while I hail a cab."
I've had a lot of exciting jobs."
What was the most exciting?"
Well, after Brown vs. The Board of Education, I was responsible for enforcing desegregation in eleven Deep South school districts."
Epic acts of kindness, HONY book edition:

Brandon

My best friend waited for three hours at your book signing to get me a copy of your book. I saw her post that she was there and commented on how jealous I was. How surprised was I to come home from another exhausting 15 hour day to find a package waiting for me. This was inside

-Angela Chow
Sacramento, California

-
AMAZON:
BARNES AND NOBLE:
INDIEBOUND:
This exercise involves breathing in the heart, expanding the breath into the stomach, and imagining and feeling warmth and positivity in all directions."
So how many of those steps did you manage to accomplish before I walked up?"
Oh, I was there."
Here, if you work, you get money. In my country, you work no money."
Today in microfashion
English is a very precise language. I like to use it when I'm describing technical things. But when I'm talking about my feelings, I find it easier to use Spanish." Why is Spanish best for describing feelings?" Latin people have a lot of feelings. So they have a lot of words to describe them."
I was photographing in Penn Station late last night when I heard screaming and loud music. A huge crowd of people came around the corner. Everyone was dressed in costumes and bright colors. One dude was dressed as a rabbit. Another had a giant, flashing, neon sword. Everyone was laughing, dancing, and singing, as very loud dance music blared from a portable sound system.
This is a new type of dance party!"  someone shouted into a microphone, Join us!"  The participants fanned out through the station, encouraging onlookers to join them. Don't just stand there!"  said the man with the microphone, This works better if everyone is dancing!"
I approached two participants along the edge of the crowd.
What is this?"  I asked.
We're not exactly sure,"  they answered. We joined two hours ago, and still haven't quite figured it out."  After a few more minutes of dancing in Penn Station, the dance party moved on, heading for another location
I like to play it cool."
How do you do that?"
Do as little as possible. Just hang back and assess the situation. Cause once you commit, you're out there."
I struck up a conversation with him, and he casually mentioned that he was having trouble adjusting to Columbia, due to his previous situation."  So I asked him to elaborate.

I was born in Egypt,"  he said. I worked on a farm until 3rd grade with no education. I came to the US for one year, started 4th grade, but was pulled out because my father couldn't find work and returned to Egypt for a year. The first time I went to an actual school was middle school, but the whole school was in one classroom, and I was working as a delivery boy to help the family. It was illegal for me to be working that young, but I did. When I finally got into high school, my house burned down. We moved into a Red Cross Shelter, and the only way we could live there is if we all worked as volunteers. I got through high school by watching every single video on Khan Academy, and teaching myself everything that I had missed during the last nine years. Eventually I got into Queens College. I went there for two years and I just now transferred to Columbia on a scholarship provided by the New York Housing Association for people who live in the projects. It's intimidating, because everyone else who goes to Columbia went to the best schools, and have had the best education their entire lives."
I'm struggling with some existential questions."
Like what?"
Why am I here? Why am I doing this job? Why am I carrying these boxes? I don't think these boxes are going to get me where I need to be."
I'm going to be an inventor. I already have some good ideas." Oh yeah? What are they?" I had an idea for an electronic cigarette with a whatchamacallit in it that makes mist so you feel like you're smoking but you really aren't. And also a toothbrush where you put the toothpaste in the bottom and it comes out the top when you're brushing." Those are some solid ideas. Anything else?" A fart gun."

We're in the middle of a breakup." Why are you broken up?" I didn't say we were broken up, I said we are in the middle of a break up."
He proposed to me in a cemetery." Well, it sounds bad when you say it that way. It was a scenic cemetery. More of a lookout point, really. And there were all these neat headstones. It was her idea to go there, anyway."
I'm a Vietnam-era veteran! Staff sergeant E-6! United States army! Field artillery operations and intelligence! Battalion, chemical, biological, radiological warfare! Non-commissioned officer!" He was quite a personality. Hard to do him justice with a written caption. Luckily it was captured on video:
Number One Bros
I met the love of my life when I was twenty five." Are you still with him?" No." If he's the love of your life, why aren't you with him?" He couldn't beat his drug problem."
Thanks to everyone who made last night so magical. The Union Square Barnes and Noble is the largest in the world, and several members of the staff remarked that the HONY event was the largest they'd ever seen. Sorry to anyone who may have been turned away by security. I think they were a little bit frightened.

To recap: Blackwolf The Dragonmaster cast some excellent spells on the audience, we had appearances from several HONY all-stars, and I gave a short speech. The highlight of the night, however, was when Ricky Syers stepped onstage, and brought down the house by unveiling his latest masterpiece:
Security System
Nobody wanted to come with me, so I came alone."
Dead tired as I'm writing this. All the adrenaline and appointments from the previous week, and excitement for the coming week, have really been doing a number on my sleeping habits. But I just want to give you guys a final, behind-the-scenes wrap up of what's happened with the HONY book.

When I decided to make a book last year, nobody really wanted it. We pitched it to all the large publishers, but only two made offers. One publisher wanted to make an inexpensive paperback. And just oneSt. Martin's Press, a Macmillan imprint, believed in our vision of an artistic hardcover. All the other publishers said the same thing: Photography books don't sell."  And This sounds like a regional book."

And you know what? They were right. Photography books typically don't put up big numbers. And Humans of New York does "sound' like a regional book. But what they didn't know was this an amazing, international community of people had gathered around this blog. And week after week, you guys put up preorder numbers that were absolutely jaw dropping.

Just jaw dropping. The book goes on sale tomorrow. But you guys have already made it a success of the massive bestseller variety. Thank you for vindicating everything I've dreamed about. And it might be the lack of sleep, but I'm saying this with tears in my eyes, you guys have made every one of my dreams come true. And I can't thank you enough.

Attached is the first photo I ever took of people. It was about four years ago, in Chicago. I remember how nervous I was to take the picture. And how excited I was when I got it. Who could have ever guessed where it would lead.
What's your greatest struggle right now?" Aging." What's the hardest part about aging?" Bending."
-1 DAY LEFT:   |  |
I walked by this yesterday in Central Park.-1 DAY LEFT:
AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND: 
Why are you wearing a pilot's outfit?" I wear it every day." Do you want to be a pilot when you grow up?" No, I want to be a teacher." Why aren't you wearing a teacher's outfit?" I don't have one." -1 DAY LEFT: 
AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND: 
Sunday Morning Haze-2 DAYS LEFT: 
AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND: 
What are their superpowers?" This one can talk any enemy to death. And this one can knock her sister over." -2 DAYS LEFT: 
AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND: 
The first cowboys were black. "Cowboy' was a derogatory term used to describe slaves that tended to the cows and horses. -2 DAYS LEFT:
AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND: 
We were best friends in high school."   Did you both know the other was gay?  I knew she was. She didn’t know I was.  So how did she find out?  I wrote her a love letter.
—————————- 2 DAYS LEFT:
AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND: 
If you make art for the sake of money, it isn’t art. It’s business."
—————————- 2 DAYS LEFT:
AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND: 
I want to be a fashion designer, but I work in visual merchandising to pay the bills. I get off late almost every night— a lot of times it’s after 9 PM. So it’s hard to find the energy to be creative. I should be sketching new pieces or sewing every night, but I’m too tired. Then the weekend comes around, and all I want to do is relax and decompress from the week. But those are the only two days I have to work on my dream."
—————————-
2 DAYS LEFT:
AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND: 
This is such a cool story. About a month ago, I posted a photo of Ricky and Doris. At that time, all I knew was that Ricky was a puppeteer, and he had become good friends with Doris while performing in the park. He loved her so much that he honored her by creating her own puppet. (Top photo). I always assumed that Doris was a woman of very few words. Because every time I tried to speak with her, she smiled, and nodded, but never spoke back. Ready for the kicker?
I ran into Doris a few nights ago in Washington Square Park. And she spoke to me! Clear as day. In fact, she had quite a lot to say. Turns out, she had just gotten out of surgery to fix her vocal cords. For a full year, she had been unable to speak, because a shoulder injury had pinched a nerve in her throat. So you know what that means?
That means that Ricky and Doris had developed this amazing friendship without Doris even being able to talk. To make the moment even more magical, Ricky's friend was nearby that night. He pulled out a cellphone, and gave Ricky a call. The bottom photo shows Ricky and Doris speaking for the very first time. 
-
Both Ricky and Doris will be at the HONY book launch. Union Square Barnes and Noble. 7PM on October 15th.
Until then, there are 3 days left to preorder: 
AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND: 
This thing's won over $16,000 in costume contest prizes."
3 DAYS LEFT:
AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND: 
Before the  piece aired last night, the producer texted me and said: We put our whole heart into this one."  After watching it, it's easy to see what he meant. Such a poetic presentation of HONY. I was floored by it. Thanks to Bill Weir and Cassius Kim for putting it together. If you missed it, you can find it here: 
Don't spend it all in one place. If I hadn't spent it all in one place, I wouldn't be here right now."
And what place did you spend it?"
Fast women and slow horses."
Where are you from?"
Russia. If you see a doctor smoking, he's from Russia."
Random People Reviewing The HONY Book:Slightly confused strangers provide snap judgements of Humans of New York. 

 |  | 

I'm afraid of sliding back to a place when I didn't have the tools to be strong."
I'm retired but I'm not sure I want to be. I keep having these dreams about all the jobs I've ever worked."
Seen at Lincoln Center
Now Trending
We just finished singing Beethoven's Ninth Symphony with the New York Philharmonic. It's the only symphony with a chorus."
Can you describe the Ninth Symphony in words?"
It's the epitome of humankind. In a music sense."
I spotted these two from a block away. They were walking away from me, so I chased them down to see if I could photograph the girl for a microfashion post. When I finally caught up to them, however, I noticed that the father was reading to her as they walked.
Grunge fashion was big for awhile. You know, the "I'm poor but I'm making it' sort of look. It's great, but it seems to have been pretty thoroughly corporatized now. I have no problem with that, but personally, my idols are more along the lines of Gene Kelly, Fred Astaire, and Sammy Davis Jr."
You want a kiss? Five dollars."
The more times I fall in love, the less sure I am about love."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Be yourself." What's the hardest part about being yourself?" That people might not like who you really are." And who are you, really?" I don't know yet."
Thanks to Matthew Smith from the Savannah College of Art and Design for adding some slight enhancements to the last image: I climbed a big cliff."
I climbed a big cliff."
My daughter lives in Pennsylvania. She's working at a nursing home and studying to be an accountant. She's my pride and joy." Does she know you're homeless?" No, she's got enough to worry about. I just tell her that I'm retired."
It's that time ONE WEEK LEFT:AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND: The images are gorgeous, and the effect is like walking through a version of the city where startlingly honest thought bubbles appear over everyone’s heads. -New York Magazine
I've been off cocaine for about 4 months now." What changed that allowed you to quit?" My parents stepped in and started randomly drug testing me." Did you resent them at the time?" No. I only resented that they had to do it for me, because I couldn't do it myself."
Americans need to turn down their, how do you say, climate machines. The buildings are too cold here and it is using too much energy. I was in the Metro today and it felt like a refrigerator."
Can you take my photo? I have Asian parents that need confirmation I'm working."
I just graduated from college."
What'd you study?"
I majored in history and political science, and minored in Chinese studies, international studies, and economics."
Wow, how long did that take you?"
Five years. I would have done it in four but I brought back a blood parasite from China."
That's pretty epic. I'll use that for your caption."
Can you write one more thing?"
What's that?"
Write: "He misses his girlfriend. He knows it's for the best. But he misses his girlfriend.'"
If you're opening a business just for the money, you'll fail. There's too much work before the money comes. Your heart needs to be in it."
It is important to maintain your equanimity. You cannot let yourself get too "up' or too 'down' based on your circumstances."
Too 'down' I understand. But why not too 'up?'"
Because the higher your mountains are, the deeper your valleys will seem. You should not react to the world. You should respond, but not react. A response is an action based on logic. A reaction is an emotional state. Your reaction will not change the world. Your reaction only changes you. Your response will change the world."
In the Dominican Republic, life is lived much more outside. When I came home from work, my friends would be drinking outside on my block, and we'd play basketball in the street. Here, life is lived much more inside. I go from my work to my apartment. I feel like I'm in a cage."
So why are you here?"
My American Dream? I want to make a Spanish language film."
I just got out of prison. I was there 37 years."
What'd you do?"
Something I shouldn't have done."
What was that?"
Someone pushed me. So I killed him."
All I do is drink, smoke, and dance."
Today in microfashion
My daughter just left for college. Before this, the longest we'd ever been apart was two weeks. It's a real bitch."
Are you still with her mother?"
I am. But we were dealing with our kid for eighteen years. Now we're trying to figure out how to deal with each other."
If you have a beard, it takes longer for people to notice that you don't have any teeth."
My name is Armageddon. The world is fucked."
In Korea, the culture is much more centered around doing what you're told. Here, everyone wants to argue and discuss and figure things out together. But there's a lot of pressure that comes with having that much freedom to make your own decisions."
Seen on Broadway.
My mom's going to buy me a drum!"
My sister taught me how to ask for money from my parents."
Oh yeah? How's that?"
First you give them a compliment. Then you talk about your day. Then you tell them about your grades. Then you ask for money."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?"
Let me tell you something. I'm a Sikh. And I lived in India back in 1984, when a Sikh assassinated Indira Gandhi. Mobs of people went door-to-door, using voter rolls to identify the Sikhs and kill them. They were chanting outside our door while we hid in the closet. The only reason I'm still alive is that our neighbor convinced them that we'd moved away. So I don't have anything to say to a large group of people. I hate large groups of people."
Seen in Midtown.
Seen on the subway.
Sometimes, when I'm going home to see her, I think: "Nobody should be this happy on a Tuesday.'"
I'm a little bit separated with wife right now."
I'm petitioning the city. I want them to slap a plaque on me and call me public art."
We go to four appointments every week, but I don't mind. She's my blood."
What was the saddest moment of your life?"
When my grandmother died."
How were you most like her?"
She had a love aura."
The great thing about New York, is that if you sit in one place long enough, the whole world comes to you."
Batmobile
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" When a wave comes, go deep." I think I'm going to need an explanation for that one." There's three things you can do when life sends a wave at you. You can run from it, but then it's going to catch up and knock you down. You can also fall back on your ego and try to stand your ground, but then it's still going to clobber you. Or you can use it as an opportunity to go deep, and transform yourself to match the circumstances. And that's how you get through the wave."
With two weeks left until it's release, the HONY book has been on both the Amazon and Barnes and Noble Top 100"  for about 30 days. Now I don't have a PhD in book selling, but I'm pretty sure that isn't normal. Anyway, I was sitting in my agent's office the other day, and he says to me: Man, this book looks so great. I just wish we could find a way to give everyone a peek inside. Maybe I can ask the publisher for some digital sample pages."  I told him not to worry, I had a better idea. Then I went home and built a book castle in my living room.The one. The only. The HONLY.300 pages. 400 photos. 75 unseen.Complete with stories and captions.If placed in a prominent location, it is guaranteed to keep Aunt Martha quiet and occupied at Thanksgiving, when she normally drinks five glasses of wine and starts talking shit.Preorder now for 40% off:AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND: 
I got hooked on crack for a few years after I found out that I had HIV. There was a bunch of us that picked up cans and bottles all day to get money. It was a blessing that I kicked the habit. Because that was fifteen years ago, and every time I go to East Harlem, I still see some of those same faces picking up bottles."
My father died of a heart attack when I was eight. So my mother played the role of mother and father. She had four children to raise, so she had to go back to work full time. I know it was hard for her, but she always put on a brave face. I remember three days after Dad died, she was knocking on our doors, saying: "Get up! It's time for school.' And we said, 'But Daddy just died.' And she said, 'And he'd want you to go to school!' Pretty much her whole life was lived for other people. She always seemed to take herself out of the equation. Even when her cancer got really bad, she'd come home from the hospital, and she'd be broken hearted about the OTHER patients. She was always saying how broken hearted she was over all the young people she saw with cancer."
He said: Do what makes you happy. I said: And what makes you happy?" He said nothing, but patted his son on the back.
I've been examining my values lately, and determining whether or not I like the feelings that result from those values." What's an example of one of your values?" I'm very competitive." And what's a feeling that results from being competitive?" Jealousy." How does competitiveness result in jealousy?" When you have a competitive mindset, you tend to view the world in terms of winners and losers. So you resent other people getting recognition, because you somehow believe that less recognition is available to you. I'm learning that this is a false mindset. There's not a fixed amount of success and recognition in the world. So another person's accomplishments don't diminish the accomplishments available to you."
The reward of painting for me is in the learning. That after all these millions of studies of flowers, trees, and lakes, I can finally pull the rabbit out of the hat."
I'm about to try to fight off a crushing hangover with a Bratwurst."
What was the saddest moment of your life?" My personal tragedy, you mean. You sure you want to hear it?" I do." I was sexually abused by a member of my family between the ages of eight and twelve. But honestly, I don't even like to talk about it anymore, because I've finally gotten to the point where it no longer defines me. For a long time I saw myself as a victim, but I've moved past that. I'm in a place now where I realize that my life is mine to create and enjoy, and that my future will be the result of the decisions that I make."
Today in microfashion
The older I get, the more I appreciate the world of the young, and the less energy I have to participate in it."
I try not to watch movies and television with too much sex and violence. They really harm your perspective."
How's that?"
Those movies and shows give you false expectations. If you watch them too much, you expect that every beautiful woman is a few hours away from jumping in bed with you. And you expect that every time you bump into someone on the sidewalk, or have any sort of confrontation, you should be ready to fight. In reality, you should probably just apologize and try to enjoy the person's company."
Do me a favor. Send this pic to every modeling agency and town, and tell them you've found a face that will really make people stop and stare at their products."
What was the saddest moment of your life?" When my mother died." What was your mother's best quality?" How do you say in English she always flew straight. Sometimes it makes your life much easier to go a little to the left, or a little to the right. She was a Catholic in communist Poland and it was not good to be a Catholic during that time. Especially because she was a teacher. It was very difficult for her, to be a Catholic and raise three children. It would have been much easier for her to join the Communist Party. But she never did."
When I was 20, I made a plan to get a good job and be secure. Now I'm 35, and I need a plan to be happy."
I'm working on transitioning back into the corporate world after owning my own business." What did you learn from trying to start a business?" You have to have a partner that's committed to the work, and not just the idea of having a business. Everybody loves to think of the title, not a lot of people are willing to write the book."
BREAKING NATURE NEWS: I found this thing in Central Park.
There are two books in America: one for the poor and one for the rich. The poor person does a crime, and gets 40 years. A rich person gets a slap on the wrist for the same crime. They say that the poor person doesn't want to work and the poor person just wants a handout. Well I picked cotton until I was thirteen, left Alabama and got my education in the streets of New York. I drove a long distance truck all my life and never once drew welfare, never once took food stamps either. I sent four kids to college. But they say all poor people do is sit around with a quart of beer. Look in this bag next to me. I've got three things in this bag next to me: a Red Bull, a Pepsi, and Draino, because my drain is clogged. But you see, even if I do everything right, I still have to play by the poor book."
She was actually a blind date for my fraternity brother. But he didn't have a car, so he asked me if I could drive them to the bowling alley. When I saw her, I decided that I was quite interested in her myself. So I asked his permission to ask her on a date." What about you? Did he catch your interest during that car ride?" Well, it was pretty dark. And rainy. Honestly I was just happy to have a ride."
Today in microfashion
I can't stop and talk. I have one more to pick up."
I was in the CIA for 27 years, but then I was institutionalized."
All the women in Pakistan are very covered up. I came to America for the first time on September 4th, so it was still very warm outside. I stepped into the terminal at JFK, took a look around, and said: "Oh. My. God.'"
It's important to stop and think before you do things."
What's something that you wish you'd thought about more before you did it?"
Lie to my dad. I lost something the other day, and he asked where it was, and I started making up a story. He knew I was lying right away, but I was scared so I just kept adding to the story. The worst part is that I ended up finding it the next day. So I got in trouble for nothing."
I'm trying to keep him away from all the negativity so that he has a fighting chance. There are so many cracks to fall through. But I already got his older brother to college."
Whenever I enter a room, I say: "The Queen has arrived!'"
Every time she graduates from a grade, it's so exciting for me because it shows that what I'm teaching her is working."
Today in microfashion


Is this your son?" It's my nephew. My family sort of scattered after my grandmother died, but I make sure that I spend as much time with him as I can. He had me at the Toys R' Us for four hours yesterday."






I'm having a hard time trusting in The Process."
What process?"
The process that says if I do my part, everything will turn out right."
Managed to piggyback a pretty epic family portrait being taken yesterday in Central Park.



I know there is corruption in America. But I have lived here for a year, and have not seen it. In Kyrgyzstan, corruption is everywhere. You can not do anything without corruption. To send your child to school, to apply for a job, you must pay a bribe. If there is a car accident in America, the police and insurance companies determine who is at fault. If there is a car accident in Kyrgyzstan, the person with less money or less power is at fault. In Kyrgyzstan, if you build a business, you can do everything right, and pay all your taxes, and still have it taken away. In America, if you do everything right, it belongs to you."






The HONY book drops THREE WEEKS from today. If you haven't already, you can preorder now for 40% off the list price:AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND: On launch day, OCTOBER 15th @ 7PM, we are going to have a celebration/signing at the Union Square Barnes and Noble. (Known colloquially as that giant Barnes and Noble." )Confirmed attendees include: The 15 ft tall Christopher Walken HONYsaurus Rex, Blackwolf The Dragonmaster, Ricky Syers and his marionettes, Spiderman, and Joey McDevitt, who will be telling dick jokes for $1.  Joe Mangrum has also agreed to create one of his sand painting masterpieces for the occasion. More distinguished guests are committing every dayI will be telling the story of HONY, which is a pretty good story if you don't mind me saying. And if history is any indication, that means a 65% chance of man tears. I will then be signing books and anything else you put in front of me. (Books will of course be available in store, and everyone's preorders should have arrived by then.) **You do not have to purchase a book to attend.**Feel free to just come in listen, and/or say hello." I'll hang around until they kick me out.If you can't make it, do not fear. I will also be doing a book signing on October 22nd at Powerhouse Arena in Brooklyn. More on this later
My philosophy is: "If you like yourself, everything around you will fall into place.'"
What do you want to be when you grow up?"
Fireman."
Why do you want to be a fireman?"
I said Ironman!"
Well guys, I've been hitting the Rosetta Stone pretty hard for about a month now, in order to bring you in depth conversations with Spanish-speaking New Yorkers. After several weeks of diligent practice, I present the first of these conversations. [Translated]:Where from you are?" Cuba." Thank you. Goodbye."
These are my bros." We've been bro-zoned."
I just wish I had a little more to put away after the bills are paid."
I want to be an actor."
What’s the key to being a good actor?"
My teacher keeps saying that you have to be a good listener. He says that if you really want to be a great actor, you need to listen and respond, and not always be thinking ahead about what you’re going to do next."
I'm dealing with the aftermath of a really horrible breakup."
What was so horrible about it?"
Well, I was engaged. And now I'm not."
How are things with the ladies?"
Real good."
Any advice for guys out there who might be struggling?"
Just be yourself. Don't say "What's cookin' good lookin,' or dumb stuff like that. Just say hello.'"
He knows how to treat the woman right."
Today in microfashion
I find that I very rarely regret having not said something."
It went in through my ribcage and stopped against my spine."
Don't tell me what to do, and I won't tell you what to do. That's my motto. I have a lot of feelings about the decisions of my family members, but I don't ever offer my opinion unless I'm asked. And that's why I'm still invited to parties."
I came here to try to be a musician or an actor, but sometimes I fear that I'm suffering from delusions of grandeur. It seems that all my time and money, which should be going toward creative endeavors, is being used up just trying to survive."
The juxtaposition of inequality in this city is really bothersome to me. You have shops selling $5 lattes placed right across the street from buildings full of people who could never dream of spending money in that way."
Everyone was telling me their ethnicity. (From right to left: "Jew-rican,' Puerto Rican, African-Cherokee.) When it came around to the girl on the left, one of her friends said: She's just a white girl. 
To which she responded: I'll have you know my great grandfather eloped with a Gypsy maid!"
Seen at the Brooklyn Museum

I used to crawl around like a lion and roar at people to make my friends laugh. Of course, I used to drink a lot more than I do now."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?"
Wear a condom."
We need to go back to the ways of our ancient forefathers."
I'm two!"
Everything that binds you to something is wrong and goes against your nature. It should all be unlearned. Jobs, obligations, manners, customs, everything. Humans are animals. They are meant to be free. If you feel like it, put down your spoon and eat with your claws."
What about marriage?"
Marriage too."
What would your wife think if she heard you say that?"
I think she'd appreciate the honesty. Because that's the sort of beast she's attracted to."
I never know if what I paint is coming from my memory, my imagination, or some composite of the two."
Continuing to love this fan art series


Glitter Third in a series of illustrations drawn by yours truly based off of Brandon Stanton’s Humans of New York photos.Original: 

Whenever I did a show in the park, Doris would come over and watch for a bit. Then one day, she came up to me, and without having ever spoken to me, handed me a clipping of an article that she'd found about me in The Villager. I thought that was the nicest thing. So I took a photo with her, printed it out, and gave it to her the next day. Then the NEXT day, she brings me ANOTHER set of articles about marionettes. At this point, I'd really started to fall for her. So I thought: "Doris keeps one-upping me. So I've got to do something really, really nice for her.'"
Drama is a constant of human experience. There's really no way to remove it from your life. I could just stand here sweeping, and it wouldn't be too long until some lady started yelling at me because I tried to stop her dog from peeing on the flowers. Drama comes out of nowhere, like a meteorite."
He's not as adventurous as I am. He really enjoys his routine. But if I ever want to try something new, like this, he'll dress up and carry the picnic basket. "
The toughest part of the job is witnessing the personal tragedies of the people we're trying to help."
What's the toughest scene you've ever witnessed?"
We got to the scene of a car accident one time. A father had rolled his car over two embankments, with his wife and two kids in the car. The wife and one of the children had been crushed to death. I'll never forget the father clawing at that car, trying to get them out."
I didn't like when mom borned Scarlett."
Scarlett's his little sister."
Seen on the subway.
I'm on the way to a negligee fashion show!"
I didn't like when mom borned Scarlett."
Scarlett's his little sister."
I learned the word "fidget' at a very young age."
I'm not sure what I want to do, exactly. But I know that I want to wear a lab coat. Everyone I've met who wears a lab coat is helping people."
The Mimic
:

Pretty much everybody in our group of friends has a different personality, but everyone smokes weed." Can you photoshop wizard hats into our picture?" And dragons."


Brutally tough decision, but the winner of the photoshop contest was somebody named Pookie McNoodles.
You just have to go where the wind takes you."
What's the scariest place the wind's ever taken you?"
A car accident. It killed my wife and my friend. I was in a coma for three months. I don't even remember it happening, but I read about it later. Two Mercedes were racing, and one of them hit us. It was all over the news, look it up. January 16th, 2000."
I get anxious when things are going too well, because it doesn't seem sustainable."
Do what the fuck you want."
There are many different tribal dialects spoken in Uganda." What tribe did you descend from?" I'm half Alur, and half Lugbara. Both tribes settled along the West Nile in Uganda. The Alur are found in the Congo as well. Can you tell me something The Alur are known for?" Our men are very brave. Though their egos could use a little work."
I'm just dealing with the struggles of getting older."
What are those?"
Oh, you know. It's not as easy to run. Not as easy to do the things I used to do."
What's something that improves with age?"
You have more experience, I guess. And less pressure."
Less pressure?"
Yeah. When you're younger, you're always so concerned about where you're headed whether you're getting ahead, or falling behind, things like that. When you're older, for better or worse, you're pretty much already there. And you learn to adjust."
Having cancer hasn't been nearly as bad as worrying about getting it."
Thanks to everyone who participated in the late night surge that sent us to #1 on Amazon. Woke up in the middle of the night, saw the ranking, felt like this:
Today in microfashion
I came from Thailand one month ago. It is very difficult for me to, how do you say, make communication with someone. I can not say anything complicated. It make me look like fool."
I kissed a woman yesterday."
HONY book comes out ONE MONTH from today, and I'm having a great time. Seems like everyday the publisher is calling with an exciting piece of news. This whole being an author"  thing is a blast. I'm trying to relax, have fun, and enjoy it in the least adult-like"  way possible. Anyway, some crucial reviews have trickled in:It turned out fucking beautiful."  - Brian, my agentVisually arresting and disarmingly deep."  -The AtlanticAre you going to make money off this?"  -my momAll of the cosmos are inside here."  -Ms. ColombiaYou can preorder now for 40% off the list price, and have it dropped on your doorstep, October 15th. AWESOME.AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND: 
I'm a jaded, cynical journalist." What's the most shocking thing you've ever seen?" Probably a roadside bomb. I wasn't actually there, but I pulled up during the aftermath, and there were limbs laying in the road." Have you ever cried on the job?" The things that tend to get me are the smaller moments of human connection. I remember one time in India, I saw a legless child being handed off between his father and mother. It was simple but that really moved me. Ever since I had a child of my own, I've been really vulnerable to displays of parental love."
Tell me something about your grandmother." She's an amazing woman. She lived in Denmark during World War II. After the Allies occupied the country, they began to hunt down Nazi collaborators. Overall this was a good thing. But instead of hunting down the powerful people, such as the police chief, they went after the weaker members of society. One of the main groups that they persecuted were the prostitutes who had slept with the Germans. My grandmother was very active in protecting and advocating for these prostitutes." At this point, Grandma joined the conversation. I was working in a hospital at that time,"  she said. After the Americans came, we had our first black baby! Everyone was so excited!"
What's something that adults do that they shouldn't do?"
Punish kids. And war."
I wish I'd gone to college."
If you're gonna break your neck, do it with class.
I’m from the Ivory Coast."
Why’d you come to America?
He formed his hands into two imaginary guns.
Too much boom boom, he said. So I run.
What was the happiest moment of your life?" Any time I wake up and nothing hurts."
He told me he was an artist.
I asked what kind of art he made.
He said: I do my own thing."
I said: What's your thing?"
He said: Doing my thing."

As I was walking away, his wife gave me his name. Look him up,"  she said. So I did.

-

Andres Serrano (born August 15, 1950 in New York City) is an American photographer and artist who has become notorious through his photos of corpses and his use of feces and bodily fluids in his work, notably his controversial work Piss Christ" , a red-tinged photograph of a crucifix submerged in a glass container of what was purported to be the artist's own urine. -Wikipedia
Everyone loves me. I go everywhere, and I don't fight with nobody. If somebody's yelling at me, I just keep walking. I've only been in one fight. I used to be a taxi driver. One time I dropped somebody off at the airport, and I really had to pee. I saw a bathroom but three policeman said I could not use that bathroom. So I pushed them out of the way. But that's only because I really had to pee."
Sweet HONY fan art.  Love the use of color.
:
Here’s the second piece of my Drawing the Humans of New York series.Based on a photograph by Brandon Stanton.
Teamed up with Vogue.com again this year to provide portraits and stories from Fashion Week. Some you've seen on here, but there's also several exclusives. Check them out here: 
I had this idea to make a portrait, and instead of filling it in with physical features, I filled it in with the verbs that each body part can do."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?"
Stay sucker free."
Suckers?"
Yeah, suckers. People who are always getting into trouble. You gotta stay sucker free."
My dad is big and strong and lifts the heavy weights at the gym. He also is a fireman and he once saved eleven people."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?"
Be optimistic."
When did you have the toughest time being optimistic?"
Two months ago, when I got diagnosed with prostate cancer."
What was your initial response?"
Depression, anxiety, fear. They caught it pretty late. Hopefully not too late, but late. There were times when I was walking down the street and I wished that I could just get shot or hit by a bus. My father died of prostate cancer when I was twelve, so you know, I assumed that was it for me."
So how'd you get past those feelings?"
By going to work every day. And having a drink every night."
We're working through some things."
What kind of things?"
Little things."
What kind of little things?"
Like when your girlfriend calls during the fourth quarter of a football game, and you say that you're gonna call back when the game is over, you can't forget to call back when the game is over."
Today in microfashion
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Try your best to deal with life without medicating yourself." You mean drugs?" I mean drugs, food, shopping, money, whatever. I ain't judging anybody, either. I was hooked on heroin for years. But now I've learned that every feeling will pass if you give it time. And if you learn to deal with your feelings, they'll pass by faster each time. So don't rush to cover them up by medicating them. You've got to deal with them."
We go to the same church."
Two of my friends committed suicide in a four month span. So I packed my bags and moved to the city, where I ran out of money, then got hit by a bus. Sometimes God slows you down. Sometimes he pumps the brakes."
I'm a Godly man."



If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Enjoy it while it lasts." What's something you wish you'd enjoyed more while it lasted?" Raising my kids. I mean, they turned out well. So I raised them well in that sense. But I was always working. Even on a lot of weekends, I was working. When I was coming up, that's what the man was expected to do." If you had spent more time with your family, do you think you'd regret not having progressed as far in your career?" . no."









I just got out of a thirteen year marriage, and he's really helped me gain back my independence."
So what have you learned during this transition?"
I've realized that everyone has a certain amount of power. You can give it away, or you can keep it for yourself. For awhile there I'd given it all away, and now I'm learning how to claim it back."
I moved here because there was a lot I didn't like about myself in Pennsylvania. I knew everybody. And everyone knew me. I wanted a chance to not know anybody. And I wanted a chance for nobody to know me."
He's all the man a girl could ever want. If I want to see a movie, and he doesn't want to see it, we go and see it."
Where do you want to be in ten years?" On a beach. Sipping margaritas."
I'm moving here to live with my girlfriend. And her parents. It's gonna be rough."
My students were worried about me riding without a helmet, and they knew I loved orange. So they made me this."
I live in Havana. For visa reasons, I have to leave the country for 48 hours every two months. I always bring a few boxes of cigars with me. I sell them until I have enough money to buy a plane ticket home."  Can I see them?"  Sure. These are Cohiba cigars. They are legendary. One day Fidel Castro found what he believed to be the perfect cigar. He inquired as to it's origin, and learned that a very old woman had rolled it. So he sent many workers to learn from that old woman, and he began producing those cigars for himself. Cohiba cigars were only given to diplomats. They were never made available for sale. This is why they are legendary. But you must understand, Castro grew up as a peasant, so Cohibas are very robust. They are not sophisticated cigars. But sophisticated cigars cost less. Because they are not legendary."
I'm breaking out of my shell."
It was very tough at first. Moving to a new country is like being born all over again. You are just like a baby. You can't speak, you can't move around, and you don't know the culture."
There's a lot of pressure being the child of immigrants."
Why's that?"
My mother is Thai, my father is from Chile. They met while working at a restaurant. There's a knowledge among first generation immigrants that they aren't going to be the ones to achieve the American Dream. They have to work hard and struggle so that their children will have a shot at it. So they educate their children and pass the Dream along to them. And now I have an obligation to make more fucking money than them, to live the American Dream, to validate all the risks they took and everything they went through. And that's a heavy burden."
With all the fluff and empty pomp floating around the internet today, you can always count on HONY to bring you the rawest, truth bearing, hardest hitting images.
What was the happiest moment of your life?"
Europe in the summer of 1959."
What happened there?"
I was nineteen. I'd just lost 100 pounds and had a whole new set of clothes. I toured Paris and Rome and everyone was paying me so much attention. They were even asking for my photograph! Of course inside I still felt like an awkward, overweight girl. It was all so overwhelming and wonderful!"
Why'd you go to Europe?"
To have sex, of course. And I did! I was the first in my whole group of friends. I came home and told everyone that I'd done it with a charming Frenchman. In reality it was some creepy dude from Chicago."
What's your greatest struggle right now?"
Imposed insecurity."
What does that mean?"
I spend a lot of time worrying about changes in things that I have no control over. Medicare, Social Security, things like that. I worry about my ability to grow old with dignity. They keep talking about cutting this, and taking that away. They shouldn't be springing that stuff on my generation. We did everything we were told to do. Spring that on a generation that has time to plan for it."
Don't try to be someone else's beautiful."
It's interesting how a New York Times review can influence an audience's reaction to a play. I've been in plays that I thought were great, but when a bad review came out, the audiences suddenly fell flat. On the other hand, I've been in plays that I thought were mediocre. But after a good New York Times review came out, the audiences were suddenly much more responsive."
How do you measure an audience's responsiveness?"
There's two ways that an actor can really "feel' an audience from the stage. One is the volume of the laughter. The other is the depth of the silences. When a play really grabs an audience, there's no fidgeting, and no checking of cell phones. You can feel the stillness."
I left Iran three years ago to study dance. I wouldn't have been allowed to perform in my country. Since leaving, I've already choreographed and produced a show about my life."
So you didn't dance at all in Iran?"
I danced. Just alone in my room."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?"
Dare to be square in a round world. But don't steal that, it's copyrighted."
Hey! HONY! I was your 11333rd like!"
Woke up to some pretty intense shit happening outside my window last night
Today in microfashion
She helps me when I'm feeling bad."
I don't need a caption."
I lived in Poland, so we were persecuted from the first day of the war. First they took us from our home, then they put us in a ghetto, then they made us march, then they sent us to the camps. I was separated from everyone, but my brother later told me that my father froze to death. But I have children now, and grandchildren, and great grandchildren a great big family, all of them educated. Look at everything that came from just one person who escaped. Just goes to show that you can never kill a people with hate. There will always be someone left to carry on."
Rumi has returned from his Wild West Adventure at Drowsy Water Ranch, and his mom has provided me with some photos to share with you guys.  She wanted to write a very long "thank you' note to everyone, but I assured her that seeing Rumi have a great time would be more than enough thanks for everyone who donated.  Here's a little excerpt from a long recap of the trip that she sent me.
He got quite good at identifying a significant number of the herd (they have 121) and would get up early to watch them come in from pasture, feed them, and would stay at the stables until late to feed them again and watch them go out at night.  Just being with the horses, feeding them, watching them, getting to know them, being treated like a regular ranch-hand by the wranglers who let him lug around buckets of feed in the mudthat really was the most soul-filling thing for him.  He is a different person for this."
Who's had the biggest influence on your life?" Probably my mother." What's her best quality?" She's a very strong woman. She plays the role of my mother and my father." Where's your father?" Oh, he's there."
I was a special education teacher."
Do you remember a specific moment in your career when you felt like you made the biggest difference?"
Actually, I do. I was in Philadelphia, and teaching a class of children with IQ's between 50 and 80. Shortly into the school year, one of the class members dropped out, and the school replaced him with a new boy. So this little boy named David shows up at my classroom door, and I let him into the class, but I couldn't understand a word he was saying. For weeks, I couldn't make out a word. Luckily there was one girl in the class who could understand him, so she would translate everything for me. Then one day, I looked up from my desk, and noticed David reading a book on the floor. I knew that no 6 year old with an IQ below 80 was reading a book, so I walked up to him, and without saying a word, I closed the book. He looked up at me and screamed: "Fuck you!' I was so happy that he'd said something I could understand that I picked him up and kissed him. We learned that he had a cleft palate, which we found a doctor to fix for free, and by the time I left the school, he was moving along just fine."
I write in my journal everyday."
Why's that?"
So much happens in life, I think it's good to live it again and get some distance from it. Or else everything is in a muddle, like on a merry-go-round."
My four year old daughter recently asked me where babies come from. I told her that when mom and dad love each other, they ask God for a baby, and he puts one in mom's stomach. That one backfired a little bit, because now she keeps bugging me to ask God for a sister."
He was in an accident where he got knocked off his bike and hit his head on a pipe. He was in a coma, so I got a big group together from the church and we went in there every day and did poetry readings, singing, range-of-motion exercises, and a lot of "hands-on' work. The doctors said that if he didn't wake up after a month, it was a bad sign. And he woke up after one month, to the day!"
What's your greatest struggle right now?" My anxiety." What are you most anxious about?" What you're going to write about me."
What's the most your life has ever been changed by an unexpected event?"
Probably when I lost my job, which led to a divorce."
How did a job loss lead to a divorce?"
A lot can be covered over by routine. So when there's a shock to the system, underlying fault lines and fissures can really open up."
Yesterday at lunch, I noticed something inside the hat of a policeman sitting next to me. So I asked if I could photograph it.
Anybody here got any big life plans?" I've got a big idea. Does that count?" Sure. What's the idea?" I'm gonna make this weed grinder. But instead of having to turn it yourself, you just squeeze it with your fingers, and a motor grinds the weed for you."
His sign said: "Photos for 25 cents.' Adorable.
You're either a good person or a bad person. It doesn't matter what color or what religion you are. You're good. Or you're bad."
They call me Cat Man. I've normally got about three or four kittens in my jacket with me. There's this empty lot in Brooklyn where this one cat keeps pumping out ten kittens every three months. She just won't stop. She's some sort of super cat. I carry them around and sell them for about $40 apiece."
Today in microfashion
I'm trying to illustrate a dream I had last night."
His birthday is coming up. We're going to shut down the entire block and have an ice sculpture."
A sculpture of the dog?"
Life sized."
Last week I sent an email to Blackwolf the Dragonmaster, asking if he wanted to review and/or cast spells on the HONY book. For those of you who don't know, Blackwolf is the Unofficial Wizard of New York a thankless yet crucial job which involves casting spells, holding the Universe together, posing for pictures, and collecting tips from tourists in Central Park. The following day I received a reply:Haul your butt and your camera stuff to Bethesda Fountain upon the morrow, meet me around "twixt 10 and noon, if thou wouldst have that Dragonmaster's endorsement." I arrived at Bethesda Fountain at the appointed time and discovered Blackwolf, accompanied by his dragon Sir Aragorn. After verifying that his portrait was included in the book, Blackwolf agreed to cast two spells. I laid the book at his feet, then ran to higher ground to avoid any errant wizard sparks. First I will cast the Dream Your Possible Dream Spell,"  he said. This will impart good thoughts and dreams upon all mortals who read this book."  He waved his staff over the book. I didn't see any sparks but Blackwolf assured me that the spell had been cast.Next I will cast the Spell of Good Fortune." What does that one do?"  I asked.It brings traffic to Blackwolf's website. Though the second spell seemed to be a bit underhanded and self-serving, I didn't ask any questions. He then asked me if I wanted him to cast a Make Brandon Stanton Money Spell. Do that one quick,"  I said. But keep your voice down." -COMING IN SIX WEEKS (October 15th)THE HUMANS OF NEW YORK BOOKover 300 pages, over 400 photos/stories, 3 legit spellsYou can preorder now for less than $20.AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND: Blackwolf The Dragonmaster's Dark Chambers:
Best one of these things I've ever seen.
I proposed to my fiancee before I even met her in person." How'd that happen?" Well, she lives in Australia. We met on Instagram. Then for the next three months we talked on the phone every night. Then I proposed on Skype." So have you met her in person yet?" Oh yeah, she's actually been in New York for the past three months. She just went back to Australia to get her stuff. We even have our own apartment. And a dog."
Seen on the subway.
I hate when people say that you never forget how to ride a bicycle. Because I forgot three times. So I gave up and got a tricycle."
I actually first photographed this man on the sidewalk, but then he invited me inside his store. And the store looked just like the guy.
What was the saddest moment of your life?"
It was more a collection of moments. My mother and I were homeless when I was growing up. And she was constantly trying to find us places to stay at night. We'd move from shelters, to relatives' houses, to friends' houses. One time we slept in a car for an entire month. It wasn't really the being homeless that was so sad. It was seeing how helpless my mom felt on the nights when she couldn't find us a place to stay."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?"
You're not gonna get me up in front of a large group of people."
When I'm doing good, everyone wants to be around me. When I'm doing bad, I'm by myself."
I'm in a bit of an introspective mood, because one of Ireland's greatest poets died today. His name was Seamus Heaney." Do you have a favorite poem by him?"


Diggingby Seamus HeaneyBetween my finger and my thumb The squat pen rests; snug as a gun.Under my window, a clean rasping sound When the spade sinks into gravelly ground: My father, digging. I look downTill his straining rump among the flowerbeds Bends low, comes up twenty years away Stooping in rhythm through potato drills Where he was digging.The coarse boot nestled on the lug, the shaft Against the inside knee was levered firmly.He rooted out tall tops, buried the bright edge deepTo scatter new potatoes that we picked,Loving their cool hardness in our hands.By God, the old man could handle a spade. Just like his old man.My grandfather cut more turf in a dayThan any other man on Toner’s bog.Once I carried him milk in a bottleCorked sloppily with paper. He straightened upTo drink it, then fell to right awayNicking and slicing neatly, heaving sodsOver his shoulder, going down and downFor the good turf. Digging.The cold smell of potato mould, the squelch and slapOf soggy peat, the curt cuts of an edgeThrough living roots awaken in my head.But I’ve no spade to follow men like them.Between my finger and my thumbThe squat pen rests.I’ll dig with it.

I've got my own nail polish. It's mine!"
My father was a very good man, but he had a lot of shortcomings. He was very singularly focused. He was an expert mason so he was very good at laying bricks. But he wouldn't apply his energies to anything else. I was very good with my hands too, but I was always wanting to try new things. But he'd always discourage me from attempting anything other than my field of study. I resented him for it." How were you a different father to your children?" I encouraged my children to try everything. So much so that they resented me for it."
It's easier to raise children in Yemen, but I'm trying to bring my family here because I want them to learn in American schools."
 Why is it easier to raise children there?"
Because they listen to you. Take me for example. I am nearly thirty years old, I have a wife and two children. But when my father tells me something, I listen. And when his father tells him something, he listens. In this country, you turn eighteen and it's "fuck you.'"
We both study architecture." So who's better at it?" Well, that's hard to say. But I definitely have the bigger ego."
I asked if he remembered the moment he was proudest of his daughter. He started musing in a thick Jamaican accent: Just seeing her born. That moment when my seed was brought forth on to this earth. It was magic." Then the girl, who up to this point had been quiet, screamed: Preach!"
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?"
Take care of the youngest and the oldest in your community, and everything else will take care of itself. I was watching this documentary about this isolated community in either India or Africa. When the old people would lose their teeth, the younger members of the community would chew their food for them to keep them healthy. Now that's devotion. In America, we're afraid to sip out of the same straw."
What do you want to be when you grow up?"
A fireman."
And what about you?"
Nothing."
Nothing? You mean you don't want to grow up?"
I want to grow up. But I just want to ride on motorcycles."
These two were excited to have their picture taken, but didn't seem to speak much English.
We are from Mauritania,"  they said.
What do you miss most about Mauritania?"  I asked.
The capital city is Nouakchott,"  they said.
At this point, I was thinking that the language barrier was going to keep me from getting much in terms of an interview, but I tried again.
Tell me more about Mauritania,"  I said.
The seated man held out one hand: Half-Muslim."
Then he held out his other hand: Half-African."
Then he brought both hands together: No problem."
When I was a kid, my dad and I used to stay up all night playing Tetris. We still send each other high scores."
Who's got the highest score?"
He's had it for awhile. But he doesn't play much anymore. He's getting a little too comfortable."
My dad died when I was eight, so I went to live with my aunt." How did he die?" AIDS." Where was your mom?" She died when I was two." AIDS?" Yep." What's your best memory of your father?" He was always really weak. But I remember one weekend he went to the hospital and got a blood transfusion, and when he got back from the hospital he was feeling really strong and energetic for a few days, so he played with us and ran around."
I'm in corporate law." How is being a lawyer different than you thought it would be when you first chose to be a lawyer?" I guess I thought that I'd have more of an effect on the lives of individuals. There's nobody who's life is reallydeeply affected by the outcomes of the trials I'm working on." What about the people who work for the companies you represent?" Not really. Even the big cases usually only represent a tiny sliver of a company's profits. The only time I feel like I really made a difference in someone's life is when I take a pro bono case." Which pro bono case do you feel made the biggest difference?" I helped a carpenter in Poughkeepsie get his house back after he was evicted over taxes. That felt pretty good."
What was the happiest moment of your life?"
I don't know. But it wasn't when I got married. That did not go well."
What's the most frightened you've ever been?"
I witnessed a friend get murdered."
What happened?"
I work as a cook, and after work one evening, I went across the street to a bar. My friend had his dog there, and it started playing with this other woman's dog. My friend bent down to untangle the leashes. The woman's husband started accusing my friend of being too pushy or something, I don't know, and just jumped on him."
Did he just stab him once?"
No, he kept stabbing him. I tried to pull him off but I couldn't."
What was the saddest moment of your life?" Probably when my grandmother died." What was your favorite thing about her?" Honestly, she was back in Bangladesh, and I really don't remember much about her. But it was the only time I've seen my dad cry."
What was the happiest moment of your life?" Seeing my mother and grandmother cry when I graduated from college."
The king is not pleased.
I had this idea that I was going to change the world: racial justice, peace on earth, things like that. I went to every anti-war march there was. But I'm pretty sure that I didn't budge society an inch. So now I just sit in the park and watch the little tots walk by. They're so cute. Oh dear, look at that one!"
Young children are in direct contact with reality. They experience the world through their senses. But as people grow older, we start thinking too much, and we form an "idea of reality.' We lose contact with reality itself, because reality isn't an idea it's reality. Luckily there's LSD."
I try to spew my thoughts for ten minutes everyday."
We just played miniature golf." Who won?" Me." Me." Me."
I'm a philosophy professor." If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Never make an exception of yourself." What does that mean?" People like to make exceptions of themselves. They hold other people to moral codes that they aren't willing to follow themselves. For example, people tend to think that if they tell a lie, it's because it was absolutely necessary. But if someone else tells a lie, it means they're dishonest. So never make an exception of yourself. If you're a thief, don't complain about being robbed."
She had a stack of comic books in her lap, so I asked: If you had a superpower, what would it be?"
I'd never have to pee,"  she said.
We met 55 years ago on a teen tour, and have been best friends ever since."
What's her best quality?"
She's loyal."
What's the toughest thing she's ever helped you through?"
I don't know if I should say this, but I'm going to. Fourteen years ago, I got lung cancer. Then seven or eight years ago, I got breast cancer. And now the lung cancer's back. I must have set a record or something, because it was fourteen years ago, but now it's back, and it's metastasized, and the prognosis is not good."
She's doing good. The chemo is working."
She's right, I'm doing ok, and I'll make it longer than expected, but the prognosis is not good. And I'm gonna cry now, but I've got to say and I know it's a cliche but she's been there every step of the way. Every appointment, every surgery, every time I've done chemo, she's been there. And I couldn't have come this far without her."
She's nice-tee." Nice-tee?" A little nice. A little nasty."
I think we're both going through a quarter-life crisis right now." What does that mean?" Well, so much of your energy in college, and immediately afterwards, goes into finding that first job. Then you finally get a job, and you get settled in, and you get past that initial hump of excitement. Then you start to ask yourself some big questions." What kind of questions?" Things like: Is my work getting recognized? Is this job leading me toward my larger goals in life? Do I have balance?"
I worked in law enforcement my whole life.What's the toughest part about working in law enforcement?Being surrounded by so much negativity, and keeping that negativity from spilling into the rest of your life. It’s unbelievable what you see out there. There are people who will kill both their parents for a $5 bag of dope.
I haven't slept in a very long time."
Why's that?"
I work two jobs at two different hotels. I just finished three shifts in a row. Last night I went to my room service job at 11 PM, and worked through the night until 6 AM. I went home to take a shower, then had to be at the other hotel for my front desk job at 8 AM. I worked there until 3:30 PM, then ran back to the first hotel for another shift that started at 4 PM. I just got off a few minutes ago, and I'm sitting here to rest for a moment before getting on the train home."
Oh, wow."
I work this hard because I'm a single parent. I came here when I was very young from the Dominican Republic. I'm very happy with what I have done. I started with nothing and I raised two kids. But I have to work two jobs so that they can get an education and go to college. I tell them everyday: "Look at how hard I work. Look at how I don't have time to sleep. I can't control my own time. I can't manage my own schedule. This is why you need an education. I work this hard so that you can do the things that I am unable to do, and have the things that I can't have.'"
BREAKING NATURE NEWS: Scientists around the world are no doubt stunned by my discovery of this sweet praying mantis in Times Square last night.
Back in Greece, your circle of friends grows larger and larger as you go through life. In America, the circle mostly shrinks or stays the same size." Why do you think that is?" Time. Nobody has time here. It seems that every time you make a new friend, another friend has grown too busy or moved away."
He does a great Penelope Cruz impression."
What was the happiest moment of your life?" My boyfriend and I ate Chinese food in the bathtub last week. That was pretty nice."
I'd like to be a writer." What do you write?" I mainly just write in my journal. I like to take snippets of conversation that I pick up on the street from different people, and piece them together into one conversation. You never do that?" I don't think so. How do you mean?" I don't know whenever I hear people talking passionately on the phone, it tends to be about the same things relationships, money, things that they value. So it's easy to take pieces of each conversation and put them into a single narrative. It's just like when you watch sitcoms. You tend to notice the same scenes acted out over and over, just with different actors."
I just finished my dissertation."
What was the topic?"
It was about the prediction of community college retention rates."
What interests you most about community college?"
Well, a lot of things. But I really think that the community college system is critical to the functioning of our democracy. A democracy depends on the education of its citizenry. And we just don't have the infrastructure to send everyone to a four year school. So if America's democracy is going to succeed, it's going to depend in large part on the health of our community colleges."
I want to be an architect."
In thirty years, if there is a newspaper article about you, what will it say?"
It will say that I underachieved."
Underachieved? Why's that?"
Because I can do all the work, make the right grades, and get all the right degrees. But once I'm off on my own, I won't be the guy pushing for new clients. I do really good work, but only when I'm working within a structure."
Everyone is like that. You just have to practice discipline and routine so that you can create your own structure."
What was the happiest moment of your life?"
Probably when I saw my husband for the first time."
Did you know he was going to be your husband?"
I did."
How's that?"
Oh, I don't know. He was just so exciting."
What's the most exciting thing he ever did?"
Oh, I don't know. One day when we were working in the garden, he got down on one knee and proposed to me. At that point, we'd already been married for 35 years."
What was the saddest moment of your life?"
When my father died."
What happened?"
He committed suicide when I was nineteen."
Did he leave a note?"
No. But he was a contractor, and his business was going under, so he was facing bankruptcy. I honestly think that he thought we'd be better off if he wasn't around."
What was the greatest day you ever spent with your father?"
Well, he was my soccer coach. I'll always remember driving to practice in his Fiat, with all the soccer balls in the back seat, singing along to Tom Petty what was that song?"
Freefalling?"
Freefalling."
I used to play tennis with Arthur Ashe."
Really? How'd that come about?"
I was an architect, and my office used to be off Columbus Circle. I lived on the Upper West Side, and every day I'd walk home through the park. One day this was in 1967 I decided to take a different path, and I heard the sound of bouncing tennis balls. I investigated, and discovered a man warming up"  on a tennis court. He noticed me watching through the fence, and asked if I knew how to play. He told me that he had a foursome scheduled, but his partner had backed out. He only introduced himself as Artie,"  but at this point I knew who he was, so I ran all the way home and grabbed my racket. I'd played tennis since the age of six, so I was very good myself, and we ended up winning the match. At the end, Arthur said: "Would you mind if I called you again?'
Julia Child would have been 101 last week. I celebrate her birthday every year. This year I cooked some smoky eggplant soup, and ate it in Central Park." Were you alone?" Of course. I love to be alone. I'm fabulous."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Get along with each other." Who do you have the most difficult time getting along with?" Probably my daughter." Why's that?" She's just in her "me' phase right now. She's got all these things she's off doing all the time. If I called her right now and asked her to come sit in the park with me, she'd think that was crazy. She'd say: 'Just sit there? You're nuts.'" What was the best day you ever spent with your daughter?" One day she called me up and asked if she could come over. And that was really nice. When your kids grow up, you're always bothering them to spend time with you. So when she called and asked me if she could spend time with me, I thought that was really nice."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?"
Keep on rockin' and rollin'."
What was your greatest moment of rock and roll glory?"
Probably my 19th birthday back in 87', when I played in front of 5000 people with my band Attitude Adjustment. We were in Germany. Lots of drugs. Lots of alcohol."
What was the lowest moment of your rock and roll career?"
Probably a year later when I was homeless."
I'm a therapist and a social worker. I specialize in trauma-informed care."
What frustrates you most about your work?"
Probably the stigma that society attaches to mental illness. Neurobiological diseases are often viewed as a step below physiological diseases, like diabetes. The stigma can be very harmful to patients."
She had three books in her hand: "Growing Up' by Russell Baker, 'Queer Eye for A Straight Guy,' and 'Romantic Weekend Getaways.'
This one's for me,"  she explained. And this one's for a friend."
And what about 'Romantic Weekend Getaways?'"
It's on sale. And I figure I could use it one day."
What surprised you most about America?" People don't stare as much as I thought they would. But even if they do stare, that means you're doing something different. And that's a good thing, right?"
Today in microfashion
We met at a comic book store."
Do you just read comic books, or do you write them?
We write them.
Have you ever written one together?
That’s coming next. It’s in the works.
What’s it about?
Can’t tell you. It’s not good to talk about what you’re going to create. You should be saving that energy for the actual creating.
What's your greatest struggle right now?"
Trying not to take on everyone else's shit so I can relax for a second."
Old people say they love their children, but they send their children to war. Old people never fight in wars. But they always start them. If they really loved their children, old people would find a way to resolve their problems.
I videotape everything I see. I’ve got 1100 videos on . I’ve got the full Macy’s Parade, the full Greek Parade, the full Puerto Rican Day Parade, all in HD. I even filmed the whole Ripley’s Believe It Or Not Museum. You can save $29 because I’ve got the whole thing on video.
I came from a big family and I want a big family. Five kids. Maybe seven.
What’s your greatest struggle right now?Growing old.What’s the hardest part about growing old?The Parkinson's.
What was the happiest moment of your life?When I proposed to my wife.How’d you do it?Well, the first time we ever met, we played Clue with another couple. So when I was ready to propose, I set up a game with the same couple who introduced us. Then I put the proposal in the envelope where the final answer normally is. The funniest part is, when she opened it, she said: ‘Wait. Does this mean I didn’t win the game?’
Today in microfashion
What was your greatest moment of baseball glory?I hit a grand slam my first time at bat in Double A.How old were you?I was eighteen. It was back in Puerto Rico.
I like biology. And math." What would you like to do when you're out of school?Be a doctor. Or a banker."
Even at this advanced age, I still don’t understand women. They remain a mystery.What specifically about women is most mysterious to you?The moods. Every woman is a special gift. But they all have the moods.
The little man told me that he knew how to get girls.
I said: Oh yeah? How’s that?
Easy, he replied. You gotta talk nice. Look nice. Have nice teeth. Nice breath. Nice pants. Nice shirt. Nice shoes. Nice everything.
I became a parent pretty late in life. I was surprised by how quickly it made me feel young again."
I'm a psychotherapist. And a drunk."
What was the happiest moment of your life?" When I sang onstage at the Super Bowl with Prince, in the rain." That works."
I've spent my whole life getting jerked around by The Man."
BREAKING: Crime plummets as mysterious new crimefighter hits the streets.
What was the saddest moment of your life?" When my mother died." What was your favorite thing about your mother?" She was very generous. A bit of a liar, but generous."
Seen in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn
Today in microfashion
People need to take responsibility for the energy they are bringing into the world." Could you give me an example?" Sure. Today we were celebrating my cousin's wedding. It was a very joyous day, but there was one person there who was not happy for her. Or maybe they were just dealing with some things in their life, because they were giving off bad energy the entire time. If you are going to bring bad energy to a joyous occasion, you may as well stay home."
I just got my master's degree in art history, which might explain the dress."
Do you mind if I take your photo?" Do I have to keep massaging her feet?"  yes."
If you could give one piece of advice, what would it be?"
Find the right woman."
Did you find the right woman?"
I thought I had."
What happened?"
She gave me the whole "I love you but I'm not in love with you' thing. We'd been married for a long time. Had a house and two kids. She said we needed to try to spend some time apart, which I agreed to because I loved her so much. Next thing I knew, she'd moved in with another man."
Do you still love her?"
Oh no, no, no. That hurt too bad. Though I do still call her on her birthday."
Was sitting on a bench in Central Park yesterday afternoon, and I'll be damned if this didn't come walking toward me.
When I finished photographing the man in the previous post, he said: Wait one second, I want to show you my father."  He went inside his store, and returned with this framed photograph.My father lost his entire family in Auschwitz when he was a young boy,"  he explained. After the war he moved to France. He went to a tie manufacturer and said "I will work for free, just teach me how to make ties.' After a year of working there, he moved to America and got a job at a tie factory for 15 cents an hour. Soon he saved enough to buy his own ties, which he peddled on the streets. Then he saved up enough to open his own tie store. Then he started selling suits too. Eventually he opened five of his own stores." Are they all still open?"  I asked.No,"  he replied. This is the last one left." The store is Global International Menswear62 Orchard Street on the Lower East Side.
This man became very animated while discussing his ideas on happiness. He extended the index finger of each hand, and brought them very close together, as pictured: Babies are happy with this much,"  he said. All they need is one ounce of milk."  Then he started to slowly widen the space between his fingers, until they were very far apart: Adults,"  he said, are not even happy with this much."

He pulled his fingers close together again: You only need this to be happy,"  he said.

Then he pulled them far apart again: You do not need this."
From Japan."
My parents adopted me when they were elderly, so they were almost like my grandparents. They died a month apart when I was seventeen. I wish I’d treated them a bit better, and saved the drinking and partying for when I was an adult.
Two months until the HONY book drops on October 15th, and a handful of top-secret, voice-activated advance copies have just now arrived. I handed one off to Anna, the 95 year old master poetess and sex joke encyclopedia who always sits on the corner. I waited nervously for her review. After a thorough examination, she offered up some superlative-laden quotes: Wow, you made a real book!"  It's so heavy!"  Take the picture quick, my arms are tired!"  So take it from Anna. If you want a real, heavy book that will make your arms tired, you have come to the right place.
Humans of New York
*304 full color pages (that's right, the silky-feeling kind) *Over 400 meticulously curated, artfully arranged images and captions, gathered over three years of working like a farm horse. (75 of these are new and unseen.)*If nestled between thick, unread Russian novels on a bookshelf, the HONY book will help to convey an elusive, sexually charged quality of earthy high mindedness. (You can thank me later.)
*Retails for $29.99, but you can preorder now for under $19. AMAZON:  BARNES AND NOBLE:  INDIEBOUND:
She asked if I wanted to hear a poem she'd written when she was younger. (At what age, she couldn't remember) She then recited it from memory. I had her repeat it several times so I could get all the words right: 

Were I to dream,then dream I wouldof days that have gone by.Your eyes would gleamand so would mine,but joys remembered are no longer mine.I walk in a garden of memory,reliving the joys and the sorrows as well.I walk with a cane down memory lane,perhaps there, joys remembered will remain.Perhaps when my hair has turned to grayand my face is etched with pain,I'll walk with a cane down memory lane.Perhaps there, joys remembered will remain.

The man on the right was from Colombia, and therefore not a native English speaker. He couldn't tell me much about himself, so I started speaking to the man on the left about his newborn daughter. What's been the biggest surprise of having a child?"  I asked.How easy it is,"  he said. We were worried about what kind of parents we'd be. But having a child was easy. It was second nature to us. Like swimming. At this point the Colombian man looked very concerned. He scrunched up his face, and said: Your wife have birth in swimming pool!?"
Today in microfashion
Ran into these young women in Chelsea. They told me they'd just met at a summer programming course called . The program tries to close the gender gap in technology,"  they told me. We've learned a lot of awesome things. But the best part is that we've gotten to meet some really cool female programmers. It's much less intimidating knowing that there are women in the field who are happy, well-adjusted, and doing awesome things. It's good to know that programmers aren't just pale guys who sit alone in their basements."
What was the saddest moment of your life?" When my father died." How did he die?" He was in an accident back in Guyana. He was riding a motorcycle and got thrown into a stream." Do you remember a moment when you most admired your father?" My father was a carpenter. And when I was growing up, he would take a ferry every morning across the river to find work. It was the Essequibo River. A very dangerous river. When he returned home in the evening, sometimes I would wait by the docks for him. Every once in awhile, the tides were so bad that the boat could not land. And it would wait offshore. If he saw me waiting for him, he would jump off the boat and swim to me. No other man would do that. It was a very dangerous river."
What do you want to be when you grow up?" An architect." What's the hardest part about being an architect?" Making the drawings." What's the best part about being an architect?" Making places for people to live."
Wanted to tell one more story from YMCA camp. As part of their camp experience, each camper chooses a goal that he/she wishes to accomplish before the end of the session. Each camper is then assigned a counselor to mentor them in pursuit of their goal.This is Malik from Brooklyn. Last summer, Malik's goal was to stop bullying at camp.How do you do that?"  I asked.Well, you can't stop it completely,"  he said. But if you see someone getting bullied, you can ask the bully to think about how he would feel if the same thing happened to him." The coolest part of the story happened after camp ended, when Malik returned home to Brooklyn. He ran for president of his 4th grade class on an anti-bullying platform, and won the election because there were 15 other kids who got bullied who all voted for him."  After he was elected, he convened a meeting of all the class presidents, and passed a school-wide rule than anyone seen bullying would have to serve detention during both lunch and recess.
Earlier this year we raised over $100,000 to send deserving kids from Bedford-Stuyvesant to summer camp. Yesterday drove 2 hours north of the city, and took a tour of the New York YMCA Sleepaway Camp. (The destination for many of the kids we supported.) Pictured below were my tour guides Alexa and Emerald. Even though it rained during my entire tour, everybody seemed to be having a great time. There was archery, kickball, swimming, volleyball, ceramics, painting, watersports, and hundreds of tacos. As told to me by the executive director, Wheaton Griffin: Our goal is to provide our campers with the same camp experience available to wealthy children. Most of our campers are here on scholarships. But they have just as much fun as kids at expensive camps. We don't have a lot of the fancy stuff here,"  he said. And we don't need it, either."
I’m a science writer.Is there a particular area of science that you’re most interested in?Anything complicated.
I’m a well known magician.What’s your greatest trick?Turning a $5 bill into a $100 bill.
So can you notice differences in their personalities yet?Absolutely. Emma’s the sensitive one. She likes to be held and comforted. And Mia is a big eater.Then Dad chimed in: She eats like an animal.
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?Pay attention.What’s something in your life that you wish you’d paid more attention to?My education. And my jobs. I lost some good jobs because I didn’t pay enough attention to them. I once had a great job with the phone company fixing teletype machines. I was lucky to get it, because I was colorblind, and couldn’t tell the wires apart. But they made an exception and hired me.How’d you lose the job?I got in with some guys at the company who were doing heroin. And I just missed too many days of work because of it.
I just ate some West African Land Snails. So I’m happy.
We met on the school bus when we were ten years old.Who approached who?I approached him. What did you say?Hello.’And what did he say?Go away.
There are too many characters out here. Some of them don’t even do a show or anything, they just harass people for money. They’re making the business look bad.
We grew up together." What's the greatest day you've ever spent together?"  when we made love."
I've noticed this homeless man in the same spot for years. He recently made some renovations
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Stay together." Is there someone specific that you wish you'd stayed together with?" Yes. My wife. But that was nature's fault, not mine. And also my son. Who's fault was that?" Mine." What happened?" Issues surrounding his mother, things like that. But honestly, he's getting to the age now, that I really think it's time he reached out." Why don't you reach out?" I can't find him." If you could say one thing to him, what would it be?" Please."
Are you friends? Brothers? Lovers? Enemies?" Well, we've been all of the above."
We dated in high school, but drifted apart and ended up marrying different people. Our cousins married each other, though. So we'd see each other at reunions, funerals, weddings things like that. When his wife died, and my husband died, we got back together. We've been together for ten years now. Why did you guys break up in the first place?" Because he was "hot to trot' back then. He really got around. And I came from a traditional Italian family, so no way my father was going to let me marry somebody like that."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Try to keep on the right side of the sidewalk."
My greatest struggle is trying to come to terms with where I am in life." How do you mean?" I've gotten old, I've lost my wife, I'm largely incapacitated, and I'm worried about money. Things aren't so happy for me right now."
I want to be a photographer." What's the best photograph you've ever taken?" A big tree!"
I really enjoyed The Mists of Avalon, which is a retelling of the Arthurian legends from the perspective of the female characters."
You know those dreams and aspirations that everyone seems to have? Well I don't have any. I'm not lazy. I just don't have dreams."
I see something in animals that I don't see in humans. They have a focus and energy that humans don't have. They just want to live. They aren't trying to impress anyone. They aren't trying to hurt anyone for no reason. Even the rat you see in the subway his only thought is finding the food he needs to survive. Animals only want to live. It's humans that demand more than they need."
Today in microfashion
I made my first website with a friend when I was in 7th grade. It was called Gaming Galaxy Online. It was extremely cheesy with a giant animated GIF as the title graphic, and pretty much all content harvested straight from other sources. The page never got any traffic, but I remember how exciting it was to build the site. The internet seemed like a place where a 7th grader could participate in the adult world on a level playing field. My friend and I tried one website idea after another. None of them really worked, but we felt very empowered. On the internet, it felt like we were one good idea away from a very adultlike level of success. And like pretty much everyone else in 1996, our free websites were hosted on Geocities.com.Fast forward almost 20 years in my late twenties, after countless attempts, I've finally managed to create a popular website. And last night I was out gathering content. I was walking past the Apple Store on 59th and 5th when I spotted a man sitting alone in the plaza. I asked for his photo, he agreed. What was the happiest moment of your life?"  I asked him.Probably when my company had its IPO,"  he answered. I founded a company called Geocities.com."
Seen in Times Square
While I was taking the previous photograph, a young boy ran by on his way to the store. Both of the seated men said hello"  as he passed, but the boy didn't seem to hear and kept on running. Seeing this, the boy's father sternly called him back, and made him shake hands with both of the men. Then he made him shake my hand for good measure. I thought it was a cool little moment, so I reassembled the cast of characters for a portrait.
What's the most frightened you've ever been?" That time the cops brought me home and my mama whooped my ass."
Technology is ruining people. I work in fashion, so I was at a fitting last Thursday. And there was a girl there she was the assistant of the assistant. She had one job. One job. She was supposed to hand pins to the assistant. But when the assistant needed a pin, she was texting on her phone. One job."
We met before the internet. So I did it the old fashioned way." What's that?" I put a classified ad in New York Magazine." What'd it say?" Harvard lawyer, runner, and tennis player looking for woman who is beautiful inside and out. And I got it! It was both of our second marriages, but we've been together 28 years."
I'm currently trying to find my place in the universe." What's been your occupation until now?" I'm a photographer." Is there a single photograph that you've taken which you are proudest of?" One time I was photographing from a bridge with a telephoto lens, and I was looking down on a beach. There was this little boy in a cowboy hat playing by the water. I was very patient, and caught this moment when all the adults cleared out of the way, and the tide came in, and the boy was completely alone, surrounded by water. I've always viewed it as representative of how we sometimes feel so alone in the world. And when we do, we feel just like a child."
If you could give a piece of advice to your teenage self, what would it be?" Trust your gut." When's a time you didn't trust your gut, but you wish you had?" Billions of times romantically. But don't write "billions.' That makes me sound like a train wreck."
What was the saddest moment of your life?" One night when I was a sophomore in high school, my mom poked her head in my room and said: "You better figure out what you're going to do after high school, because you're not going to college.' It hit me really, really hard. I remember I took a long walk by myself that night. I hadn't been applying myself and was doing really poorly in school, and her words really shook me up. That night I committed myself to working through my problems and getting good grades. I ended up getting into a great college and got a degree in political science. And I actually just now came back from my first job interview."
I think our memories of childhood are composed of these magical play spaces that children have. Does that make sense? The places that, as children, we sort of claim and carve out as our own. I think we lose that in adulthood. Does that make sense?" Can you give me an example?" Well, I moved around a lot. So I had a lot of different ones. But I remember the back balcony of our place in California. There were plants out there, and I used to get on the ground between those plants and play with my toys. It was my space." Do you remember the saddest day of your life?" I lost a sister." How old was she?" She was eight. I was twenty at the time." What's the greatest day you ever spent together?" I remember this one time we were walking in Pennsylvania, and she was really young so I was a long way ahead of her. And she stopped and kept calling for me to come back. I finally walked back to her and she was pointing down this narrow alleyway it was blocked off by this wrought iron gate and lined with trees and paved in cobblestone, and the light was coming through just perfectly. It was very beautiful. And I just loved how she'd noticed it and stopped me from my busyness to appreciate it." It was one of her spaces." Yeah, I guess it was."
I was walking down the sidewalk, listening to music, when I noticed this man waving his arms at me. So I pulled out my earbuds, and said: What's up?"
He replied: How are you not going to photograph New York's number one homeless man?"
People should do what they want, even if other people say it's crazy." What's something you've done that other people said was crazy?" . date him."
I received a polite, businesslike letter yesterday from somebody asking if they could draw monsters on my photographs."  That's like asking if I want to see a flying side kick.

What's the most frightened you've ever been?" When my mom died." How old were you?" Sixteen." Where was your Dad?" Not around." How'd she die?" AIDS." What'd you do?" Dropped out of school. Hung out with friends. Drank a lot. In certain neighborhoods, the whole community would have a charity drive if your parents died. Not in my neighborhood. We were on our own. I'm a youth counselor now. Some of the kids I deal with try to tell me how tough they are because they're from the "streets.' I tell them: 'You aren't tough. You're barking at the wrong tree. I grew up in hell.'"
I like to read biographies of dead poets." Aren't those a bit boring?" You kidding me? Shelley died on a boat, Byron fucked everything that walked, and Yeats talked to dead people."

Do you want to see a flying side kick?" I absolutely do."
What's your favorite thing about your mother?" This is my godmother." What's your favorite thing about your godmother?" She helps me scare my godfather."
I’m an architect.Tell me something that you've learned about architecture that also applies to life in general.Details matter. Sometimes I look at people on the subway, and I wonder if they realize how all the small decisions they make affect the overall effect they are giving off. Things like posture, clothing, hygiene
One time I was hitchhiking in California when this guy in a truck pulled over and picked me up. The first thing he did was crack open a beer, then he handed me one. I don't even drink, but I pretended to drink it. Then he reached into a compartment and pulled out a handful of weed and asked me if I wanted any. When I told him "no thanks,' he just threw the handful of weed at me and said 'I don't even need it, I own four weed farms.' At this point it was dark and I was getting pretty nervous. Then he said he had to pee, so he pulled off this side road and drove deep into into the woods. I was gripping my bottle, getting ready to hit him in the face with it." So, what happened?" Oh nothing. He was just peeing. Then he gave me $200 and bought me dinner."
I normally spend all night exploring the city." What's the coolest thing you've ever found?" Well, back when the MTA lengthened the size of the trains, a lot of subway stations became inoperable. Those ghost stations are really cool to see." How do you get there?" Just let your balls drop and watch out for the third rail."
She was sitting alone outside a nursing home. When I moved here,"  she said. I had to give up my cat for adoption. There were two broken hearts. Hers and mine."
I'm having a puppy party!"
I'm an artist. I paint murals." What would you say to a young artist?" Fuck the rules."
He took me on a surprise trip to Paris one weekend." Where did he say you were going?" He told me that we were taking Air France to Canada."
I found these two in Central Park. After I took their photo, I began to ask Dad some questions, but ended up getting some perfectly valid, yet generic responses:What was your happiest moment?" When my daughters were born." What's the proudest you've been of your daughter?" I'm always proud." What was the saddest moment of your life?" I'd rather not say." After a few more attempts, I resigned myself to the fact that the man wasn't going to reveal any details about his life. His reserve was perfectly understandable, but I left a bit downtrodden. Because I loved the photo and was hoping to pair it with a great caption. When I got home, there was an email in my inbox:


Dear Brandon,I saw you in Central Park this evening with my daughter (red head). You asked me about my happiest day - I told you when my daughters were born (I meant it). You asked me what the saddest day in my life was - i told you I'd rather not answer. Well, it was Aug 12, 2006 - on that day, my wife and I lost our first baby - she was 36 weeks pregnant (his name was Peter). It was horrible. But now we have 2 beautiful little girls, so Im grateful. The reason I was unable to provide a specific answer to questions about my happiest day or what makes me proud about my girls - because everything does. Thank you.

I went to college in Poland for banking and economics." Why didn't you work in those fields?" When I came to America, I didn't speak English well enough for those jobs. Then I had my son. And you know, when you have a family, you've got to work."
Today in microfashion
Put all your eggs in one basket. Because if you aren't sure what you want, the Universe isn't going to help you get it."
What's your favorite thing about him?" He's spontaneous." Give me an example of a time he was spontaneous." About an hour ago." What happened an hour ago?" Nothing."
Then, turning to the other gentleman:OK, well, what's your favorite thing about him?" He works hard to make people happy." What's a time he worked hard to make you happy?" About an hour ago."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" There are things you do, and there are things you don't do. Don't do the things that you don't do."
My nickname is Mother Rockstar." Why's that?" Well I never knew my mother growing up, so I was always afraid that I wouldn't be a good mother myself. But my son always told me that I was a rockstar."
Umbrella injury."
I've got an art degree, but I'm thinking about going back to school for physics." What draws you to physics?" Well, physics is like art to me, in that I think it's sublime. But in physics, there aren't trends to grab onto. It is what it is."
In honor of HONY's one millionth Facebook like,"  here's a screenshot of the message I sent to all my friends and family on day one. I remember it was kind of embarrassing, and I winced a little bit every time I hit send."  But, hey you've got to start somewhere.

People need to use their creativity. Everyone has it, but we're conditioned into thinking that only experts and celebrities have it, so everyone else should just fall into line. Society thinks creative people are dangerous." Why don't people don't use their creativity more?" Because they're being bamboozled."
What do you want to be when you grow up?" A milkman." What's the best part about being a milkman?" Making the cheese."
I'm an actor, a plus-sized model, and a boxer. But for the next four hours I'm a hostess. Because I need $100. 
Two steps to a great photograph:
1) Place something in front of one of 's sand paintings.2) Take photo.
Are you dating?" This is our first date. Actually, our first date was this morning. This is our second date. 
They can take away his license,but they'll never take his pride.
Every time I turn on the TV, it's a reality show. And those ads are so damn intrusive. I'm telling you the Judeo Christian culture is about to go down the toilet. We're just waiting on the final flush. I'm trying to get myself booked into a nursing home before it happens."
Yesterday, I was walking through Washington Square Park when I noticed a small boy and his mother selling cowboy supplies. We're saving up for a horse,"  they told me. The boy's name was Rumi. After speaking with Rumi's mother, I learned that Rumi has loved horses his entire life. He has horse themed shirts, toys, and backpacks. All those things are great. But Rumi's biggest dream is to own a horse. You can get one for $1000!"  he told me. After a full afternoon of selling cowboy supplies, he'd raised $1. He seemed a little downtrodden by the afternoon's results, but committed to his ultimate goal.That night, I jumped on the phone with a couple of horse experts not Rumi's parents who have special expertise regarding kids who want horses. These horse experts not Rumi's parents told me that having a horse is super expensive. It's just about impossible for normal parents, especially ones who live in a small NYC apartment, and who aren't wealthy, to provide a horse for their child. Sometimes this can be quite heartbreaking.So I thought of a plan. Let's send Rumi on a Wild West Adventure! With the size of the HONY audience, it'd be quite a simple thing to do. I spent all last night making phone calls, and threw in $300 to get us started. Please consider tossing a few coins in the [cowboy] hat:
We met at a college convention in 1941."
What was the saddest moment of your life?" When Lady Gaga cancelled her Born This Way tour."
Hurry up, my leg's starting to hurt."
I decided to drop a heavy question on him, and asked: What's the secret to living a good life?"
He immediately answered: Don't think bad thoughts."
We've been married 22 years. He's a very good man. He feeds me, he bathes me, he pushes me around everywhere." How'd you meet?" I tripped when I was coming out of the grocery store, and dropped my bags. He picked them up."
He had the faces of several members of his family tattooed onto his arms.
Some strange, beautiful artifact from an ancient time just showed up in my inbox. I haven't quite figured it out yet, but I think it has magical powers. 
What was the saddest moment of your life?" When we landed in Vietnam. I accidentally left my flak jacket on the plane. The commander pointed me to a pile of used ones. They were all bloodied, torn to shreds, and covered with flies. Then for the first week I was there, all I did was carry the wounded from the hospital to the tarmac, so they could be airlifted out."
So we've been quietly experimenting with cross-posting HONY pics to an Instagram account for a couple months now, and things seem to be taking hold pretty well. (I've actually run into quite a few people that were unaware HONY existed outside of Instagram, which was eye-opening.) 
So if you're an Instagrammer, check us out: @humansofny
What's your favorite thing about your dad?" He helps me with my problems." What's the biggest problem he's ever helped you with?"  probably when I get in fights with my friends."
Then dad wiped some imaginary sweat from his brow, and said: Whew!"
Perhaps the best collection of film extras that I've ever run into.
I asked grandma if her mother was colorful as well. Nope,"  she said. It started with me."
Are you married or dating?"
We're married. And we're on a date."
What do you want to be when you grow up?" I don't want to grow up. 
Quinceañera (lit. meaning "one who is fifteen'), is the celebration of a girl's fifteenth birthday in parts of Latin America and elsewhere in communities of people from Latin America. This birthday is celebrated differently from any other birthday, as it marks the transition from childhood to young womanhood."  Wikipedia
Six years ago I got a job in New York, and I needed a roommate, so I found Nate on Craigslist. We lived together for three years and became very good friends. I live in Toronto now, but I come back every couple of weeks to visit with him.
Pretty much everything I own has flowers on it"
What was your greatest moment of baseball glory?" I once struck out twice in a slow pitch, high arc softball game. That's very tough to do. I said that I was doing it for the ladies, to build their confidence. Because I'm a feminist." Isn't it kind of the opposite of feminism to suggest the ladies needed confidence?" I guess I'm not even a good feminist."
Five years ago I got hit by a jeep on my bike. I woke up in the hospital, my face was messed up, I was on lots of morphine, and my family had all gone home because they'd been told I wouldn't wake up that night. I was really scared. The next few weeks, while I was healing, I told myself that if I ever got better, I'd never live a mediocre life. And what are you doing now?" I got a BS in Mechanical Engineering and now I'm getting a PhD in Biomedical Science." What are you going to do with it?" I'm going to save humankind, of course."
This man was cruising through Central Park, while his dog jogged out in front of him. They keep trying to give us tickets,"  said the man, So I taught him a trick. Watch this. 
He shouted: Police! And the dog jumped up on the scooter.
Girl next to me on the subway had the most beautiful eyes.
He asks a zillion questions." What's the toughest question he's ever asked you?" How to get to Hogwarts."
I see how much I love him, and I imagine that my dad loved me like that one day, and it makes me wish I'd been a better son."
What was the saddest moment of your life?" Probably when I was homeless for a few months." What happened?" This city can really chew you up and spit you out. People don't seem to realize that a lot of the homeless people they pass on the street had homes the week before."
She agreed to a photograph, but seemed a bit uneasy about the whole being interviewed by a stranger"  thing. I really liked the photo, so I kept trying questions, hoping to strike on one she felt comfortable answering but no luck. Eventually she said: This feels like a really bad date. 
Front Row Seats
They were filming that show "Gossip Girl' across from my apartment. I marched right up to the crew and said: 'Do you have any idea what you're doing to the youth of America?'" Is the show really bad?" Oh, I've never seen it. But gossip is horrible. It ruins lives."
He pushed me here after work. 
I'm on Instagram! Can I see?" It only works at home."
Then his dad leaned in and whispered, It's a private account."
You think that your children are going to grow up to be a lot like you, but then they develop into a completely different person. Yesterday my seven year old son told me that reggae was boring. That hurt a little."
Fasting is about going without, so you learn to appreciate what you have. It's also about learning to sympathize with people who have less than you."
I met her when she tackled some guy next to me at a party. So in my first memory of her, she was horizontal and in the air. 
This was really cool for me
I had a few appointments yesterday, so I wasn't able to get in a full day of shooting. I decided to head out late for a second shift, to see if I could find a few more portraits in midtown. I found this man around 11 PM. He was sitting off on his own in Bryant Park, working on his computer.
Do you mind if I take your photo?"  I asked.What for?" I run a site called Humans of New York I've taken 5,000 street portraits of people around the city."  He turned his computer around to face me.
He'd been looking at HONY.
Seen in Washington Square Park
I'm trying to figure out what I want to be when I grow up. 
We don't have as much money as we used to. We moved into a smaller apartment and don't have as many nice things. But my mom still bought me this skateboard, even though it was really expensive. 
What was the happiest moment of your life?" When I came to America." Why'd you come?" To be a housekeeper. 
She does her thing, I do my thing. We interact in between. We've been married 30 years, and that's how we like it."
Everyone needs to have their own blueprint. Just because it looks good on someone else, doesn't mean it's going to look good on you. 
A photo of me once hung in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, sixteen inches high."
What has been seen, cannot be unseen.

Seen in Central Park
This handicap is a new thing to me. I lost my legs to a disease and now I'm doing my best to keep up all my old activities. I figure if I don't use what I have left, I'll lose that too. I used to walk through the park all the time, but this is my first day doing it in the chair. I'm on the way to a jazz concert."
A couple months ago, I visited Facebook HQ and spent the day photographing some of their employees. One of these employees was Chef Josef, who passed away today. 
This from Mark Zuckerberg:

This morning Josef Desimone, our executive chef, was involved in a motorcycle accident and I’m sorry to report that Josef has passed away.
Josef was a Facebook legend and institution. Chef Josef"  joined us in 2008 and built our culinary team from a handful of employees in a single café into a global team with dozens of world class restaurants. He never compromised on quality while maintaining total attention to detail. Josef played an incredibly important role in defining our culture during those first years and right up to the present. 
Away from Facebook, Josef was just as energetic and driven. Almost every weekend he was volunteering with veterans’ organizations, hosting firefighter breakfasts or supporting some other valuable cause. He had a strong belief in giving back more in life than he took, and it shows in all the people who mourn him today.

Seen in Washington Square Park
Seen in Central Park
This job fucking sucks." Why's that?" They're cheap as shit, so they pay us off the books. I can't even prove a source of income when I'm applying for things." Can I write that on the blog?" I don't give a fuck." What if the owner gets mad at you?" I don't give a fuck."
Couple spotted on 3rd Avenue, looking very zen.
It's getting increasingly difficult to disconnect from the world. So everyone needs a drug some way to disconnect from everything. For me, tango is that drug. When you dance tango, it's like you are in a cloud for three minutes. 
The girl on the right told me she wanted to be a veterinarian. Then, almost as an afterthought, she threw in Also, the President of America."  Charmed by her extremely ambitious postscript, I chuckled a bit.What are you laughing at?"  said Dad.
BREAKING: Panhandlers cracking under the heat.
Seen at West 4th Street.
I think the sky wins this fight.
Sun Drenched
Flash Flood 
I don't normally post iPhone photos. But I also don't normally look up at the gym and see this
I can’t go back because I’m a political refugee. I haven’t seen my family in 31 years.
It's difficult for many people to pick a saddest moment, because they've had so many sad moments strung together. Same thing with a happiest moment. You can be very happy buying needles or postage stamps, or you can be miserable at a $3,000 gala. It's not about a place or a time. It's about a feeling." So what decides the feeling, if not place and time?" Who you're with, I suppose."

If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Well, I'm in finance, so I'd say: "Stay diversified.'" Outside of finance, what area of your life do you wish was more diversified?" Well, I wish I'd focused on more than finance."
What was the saddest moment of your life?" When I lost my first wife." How long ago was this?" 40 years." What happened?" We were in the Peace Corps, and had gone to Ethiopia to teach English. We were stepping out of a van when a runaway police car barreled into us. I still think they did it on purpose." How old were you at the time?" Twenty one."
She's infectiously excitable."
Once I ate two or three pot cookies during a poker game. When we finished, I watched my friend spend several minutes collecting all the chips, sorting them, and carefully stacking them in a tray. As soon as he finished, he tried to pick it up and dumped the whole thing on the floor. I ended up hunched over on the ground, gasping for air. 
Once I was in a talent show, and at the end, everyone stood up and clapped!"
What was the happiest moment of your life?" That time I went to a Grateful Dead concert." Were there drugs involved?" Lots of them."
The happiest day of my life was when I finally got my GED. I had to commute back and forth between The Bronx and Jersey everyday for two years."
I pretty much always feel sad and unsure of myself." But you're very colorful." And my name is Allegra, which means happy."
What is your superpower?" Fix the trains."
Seen in Midtown
Less than 3 months until the HONY book drops on October 15th, and my publisher has been lovingly prodding me to remind you guys of this fact. It's got 300 of my favorite photos and captions (out of 5,000), as well as 80 new, exclusive photos. The design went through several drafts and came out super polished. And everyone who's seen it, including me, thinks it looks amazing.The book also just got this review from Publisher's Weekly. It was a starred"  review, which I'm told is a good thing:Many photo essays of this type have a singular topic in mind, such as highlighting urban blight or homelessness. [Humans of New York] doesn’t shy away from those topics, but it doesn’t dwell either. There’s no judgment, just observation and in many cases reverence, making for an inspiring reading and visual experience." You can preorder now online:AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: INDIEBOUND: And now, back to your regularly scheduled programming.
What was the happiest moment of your life?I’m pretty happy right now.

I was in Washington Square Park the other day when a girl tapped me on the shoulder and very timidly suggested that I photograph a man named Mark. He stands on that corner,"  she said, but he only asks for a penny, which is kind of interesting. He's remembered my name ever since the first time I met him. And one day, he saw me struggling with some luggage, and he carried it all the way up to my dorm. Then he absolutely refused to let me pay him. 
Each of these boats represents something special to me. I was working on [the blue one] when a man saw me and offered me a job as a machinist's apprentice. And I built [the red one] after I had my stroke."
If you’re too generous with people, you’re going to be in money trouble down the road. It’s good to be open-handed, but remember first to be generous with your own future.
I like to sit here and watch people. I’m too old to do anything else.
What does Jew Boo mean?It could be interpreted a lot of ways. It could mean a scary Jew. It could mean a Jewish Buddhist But what does it actually mean?It’s a hook-up app. But I don’t endorse it. Make sure you write that I don’t endorse it.
I’ll give you the same advice that I give everyone.What’s that?Have a short memory for offenses, and a long memory for kindnesses. 
What was the saddest moment of your life?Probably when my cousin died.What happened?He got shot coming home from a party.What was your favorite thing about your cousin?I don’t know he spent a lot of time with me, he talked to me a lot. He was sort of my idol.
My idol is the hulk. 
The Australian Consulate asked me to give advice to an incoming group of Australian immigrants, so I’ll tell you what I told them.What’s that?It doesn’t matter how good you are, or how hard you work. There will always be someone in this city who’s better at your job than you are.
I’ve got what I want. I’ve got a place to live, a girlfriend, and a child. My biggest struggle is just figuring out how to maintain.
What was your proudest moment as a firefighter?9/11.
When I was younger, I thought listening was just about learning the contents of someone’s mind. I’d always try to finish their thoughts, just to show them that I knew what they were thinking. As I got older, I learned to listen better. I realized that by trying to anticipate their mind, I was ignoring their heart.
There’s not enough art for working class people. Almost all the art in this city seems to cater to the wealthy or the tourists. Access to art should be a right. I came from a working class family, so I want to make art for working class people. 
Today in microfashion
What are you reading?" Rimbaud. He's a 19th Century French poet that turned romanticism on its head. Before him, poets tended to associate nature with order and harmony, and extended that to man. He was the first to really describe nature and man as chaotic and unpredictable. He was especially good at expressing teenage angst." OK, I'll give you 60 seconds to find a passage that demonstrates what you just said."

Here's what he chose:
The wolf howled under the leavesAnd spit out the prettiest feathersOf his meal of fowl:Like him I consume myself.
After I took his portrait, I asked him if he could remember the happiest moment of his life. He thought for a moment, put one finger in the air, and said: Albania, number one!
Who would you say has had the greatest influence on your life?Probably my grandmother. Though eventually I grew up and realized that she was actually a pretty miserable person. How did she influence you?Well, she was an amazing painter. And she was really good with colors. 
If you’re going to Grand Central, you gotta play with your trains.
Back in Antigua, if you need a place to stay, your family will welcome you with open arms. In America, they’ll welcome you, but you’ve got a time limit.
I know a thousand wise things. And I'm not going to tell you one."
What's the hardest part about being a Dad?"
Probably just realizing that my time with him is going to run out."
What's the hardest you've ever laughed?"
When I got my divorce papers."
What's the meaning of life?"
Wear chicken suits."
Early in the spring, I photographed a young woman playing catch with a boy in Washington Square Park. It turned out that she was his babysitter, and was warming him up for tonight’s game. I had every intention of sharing it, but the photo somehow got lost in the shuffle. I recently received an email gently reminding me of my oversight. So here’s the post, long overdue.
This has been the first time in a long while that we’ve spent an entire day together. And it’s been really, really nice.
What was the saddest moment of your life?When my mother died.What was your favorite thing about your mother?She never let us be homeless.
What’s the most beautiful thing you’ve ever seen?It’s really hard to put into words. My girlfriend and I were visiting the Franz Joseph Glacier in New Zealand, and we really wanted to take a helicopter ride at sunset. But all the tour companies were telling us that they weren’t allowed to fly in the evening. Finally we found this sketchy company that didn’t seem too concerned about safety standards, and they agreed to take us for a lot of money. We thought really hard about it, and agreed that it was a risk we had to take. We were really scared the entire ride, but when we broke through the clouds, and saw the sunset reflecting off the glacier, it was the most beautiful thing that either of us had ever seen.
What do you want to be when you grow up?I’m already an actor. I was on an episode of Nurse Jackie.
I saw two of my best friends get killed in front of my face in Vietnam. And the worst part is I feel like it was my fault. We’d just gotten back to base from a 5 day mission, and we were all dirty and disgusting. Everyone wanted to rest, but I argued with my two friends and eventually convinced them to come to the well with me to bathe. When we got to the there, I told them to go first, while I stood lookout. The thing was booby trapped. When my buddy lowered the bucket to pull up some water, the whole well exploded, and they both got killed. That was on June 3rd. It’s a really hard day for me every single year.
I like that she is super strong and tough, but that sometimes she just likes being "a girl'."
He uses our vacuum cleaner accessories as imaginary weapons.
If you could say one thing to the 18-year-old version of yourself, what would it be?It’s never too late.
What was the happiest moment of your life?Well, this is pretty simple, but my son went on a three month trip once. He spent a month in Italy, a month in India, and a month in Tibet. I remember picking him up at JFK, and being so happy that he’d had that experience, and that he’d come home safe.
What’s your greatest struggle right now?Staying sober.Are you sober right now?Yep. Six months. Sixteen days. 
I want to study computer science and work with technology. Because technology is about being new, and I like new things.
What was the happiest moment of your life?" When we won the finals." What was the saddest moment of your life?" When we lost the finals. 
I never thought about age at all. But for some reason, when I turned 50, it hit me all at once. I realized that I was more than halfway through my life, and there was still so much that I haven't done. Mainly for others. There's so much I haven't done to help other people." What's one thing you'd like to do for another person that you haven't done yet?" Well I'd like to spend enough time in the lives of my grandchildren so that they learn that life is about helping others."
I've seen some paranormal shit, man. One time I was at my girlfriend's parent's house. We were in the bedroom, and the room was completely dark, but the door was ajar and there was a light on in the hall. And this silhouette of a man appeared and completely blocked the light from the hall. I pointed it out to my girlfriend, and I swear, the silhouette just dropped straight into the floor. I only tell that story to strangers. Because my friends and family would think I was on drugs."
When I first approached, he told me that he was working on a business plan. We began talking, and eventually I asked him to tell me his greatest struggle. It's hard to do what you want to do,"  he said. Because there's so much pressure to do what's next."  Then he held up his business plan. That's why I'm working on this."

If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Stay away from large groups of people."
Today in microfashion
I may look like a schlub, but I've attended 6,000 art lectures at The Met, and I've got more degrees than a thermometer."
I'm frustrated by how school administrations approach drug education. They seem determined to present the most frightening information, as opposed to the most accurate information. God forbid someone try to explain that marijuana is not nearly as dangerous as heroin."
What are you writing?" It's the result of a panic attack, that sort of turned into something else" Can I see it?"


The NY skyline swirls around me,Cars and brick and tree trunksmashing together,glass windows gnash jagged teethThe body of a dead girl wasfound earlier today,bleeding out on the sidewalk.Rising from her body camean awkward boy,stammering and confusedand full of wonderand terror all at onceThe boy’s grandparents keepa photo of the boy in a dark chesnut wig,all made up and dressed to the 9’s(They believe her to still be alive)Ladies and gentlemen and variationsthereupon, observe this paradox-She lives, he dies, she dies, he lives;yet they cohabitate side by sidein a singular trembling body. A body thatcannot contain them both, for theworld is not ready for such a body.

I have time for a social life, but not a personal life." What's the difference between the two?" Well, a social life is about going to events to meet acquaintances, for business and things like that." And a personal life?"  a personal life is when you're around people who won't judge you if you get wasted and do stupid things."
I'm an audacity coach."
Seen in Columbus Circle
The pigeons always come, but I wasn’t expecting the ducks!
I came to America about two months ago. I began working here shortly after I arrived from Ghana. At this shop you must begin as a stock boy. The work can sometimes be very hard, a lot of stacking and carrying boxes. But I am a very hard worker. There is nothing I will not do if you tell me to do it. They told me that if I did a good job as a stock boy, eventually they would move me into sales. And thanks to the goodness of God, they have just now chosen to move me into sales.
I'm a chef." So tell me something you've learned as a chef that also applies to life in general."  if you don't eat, you'll die."
If you could give one advice to a large group of people, what would it be?You don’t give advice to people in groups. You give advice one at a time.
What’s your greatest struggle right now?Trying to hold my family together. Ever since my dad died, none of the brothers and sisters talk to each other anymore. I’m the only one making an effort. I feel like if it wasn’t for me, the family would drift apart completely.What was it about your dad that held everyone together?That’s what I’ve been trying to figure out.
If you want to learn about life, watch old films from the 30's, 40's, and 50's. Those will teach you to have style and class."
What was the happiest moment of your life?"
The first time I showed my photographs in a gallery. I was in my late twenties. Back in those days, you could still walk into the SoHo galleries and make a pitch. So I spent an entire afternoon carrying around my slides, going from gallery to gallery, but all of them blew me off. Then at the tenth gallery, they told me they didn't have time to speak to me. I was so exhausted, I said: "Oh yes you do have the time!' And I ended up walking out with my own show. I remember walking down the street afterwards. I kept singing Linda Ronstadt's 'It's So Easy.'"
Upside down it says "Believe.'"
I want to make big business. But I got no money. And I got no connections. 
She was resting after a dance performance in Washington Square Park. After I took her photo, I began with the interview, but she cut me short. I’m not good with words, she said. That’s why I speak with my body.
What's your favorite thing about your brother?"
He unlocks Xbox achievements for me."
What was the proudest moment of your life?"
The first time I put on this uniform."
What’s your greatest struggle right now?"
Trying to put together a new dresser from IKEA.
You better snap it quick, because I'm jumping on the first thing that comes down this track."
He's an engineer, and he always thought it was stupid to have a bed sitting in the middle of a room. So when our ceiling collapsed during a flood, he took the opportunity to build our bed into the ceiling. Now we have much more space, and when we're ready to sleep, we just flip a switch and the bed lowers to the ground. 
Hey HONY! I got blocked from your page!" You did? What did you do?" I'm not sure, exactly. But I think it's because I was writing "first' on every post. 
What was the happiest moment of your life?" When my daughter was born." Where is she now?" She was raped and murdered, along with my wife." Oh God. Were you there at the time?" Nope. I was at work. I was a paramedic." Were you the one that found them?" Yep." Did they catch the guy?" They did. But I had a nervous breakdown and got committed. After that, I wasn't allowed to be a paramedic anymore."
I've been trying to set limits on my sixteen year old brother ever since our mom died, but it's tough. He's really intelligent, but he thinks he's too smart for school, and just doesn't seem to care anymore. He thinks: "I've lost my mom, so what's the point?' All I can do is keep working and try to set an example." Where's your dad?" Who knows."
Everything I've given her, she's given me back, and more. It started when we first met. We were living in the same building at the time. I told her that I was going to hire someone to clean my apartment, and she volunteered to do it. When she finished, I tried to pay her, but she took the money and bought me things. I tried to pay her again and again, but each time she used the money to buy me more things."
We're late for a wedding. 
No time like bro time.
Seen in the subway.
How does being a grandfather differ from being a father?" It's a completely different world. I'm not working anymore, so I get to watch him grow up."
He kidnapped me last year and has been taking me around the world ever since."
Sometimes we dress up in costumes for no reason. You know why? Cause I'm the COOL AUNT!"
He's always doing this bit where he does something absolutely ridiculous, then he puts on an English accent and asks: "Does that make you horny?'"
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" I'd want to say something to the children." OK, what's that?" Educate yourself as much as you can. Seek knowledge of yourself and others."
What's your favorite thing about your dad?" He works really hard outside. But after that, he still rides bikes with me. 
BREAKING: Man with photography aversion decides to ride ten foot tall bicycle.
I grew up with five close friends. We'd all ride bicycles together and stuff. Then when we got to high school, they got new friends who did drugs. I didn't do drugs, so suddenly I was their corny friend. Now we're all grown up, and I'm the only one not hooked on pills."
Eventually I had to learn that I couldn't make everyone happy. At one point I had the degree I wanted, the job I wanted, and the wife I wanted, but part of me was still unhappy because I felt that I was falling short of my parents' expectations. I had to learn to put me first."
The visa process is long and stressful. It's so hard to focus on my work when I know that, in the end, I may be sent home."
It was easier than I thought it'd be."
My mom is really overprotective. I mean, don't get me wrong we're best friends. But it took me moving across the country for that to develop."

Seen in Madison Square Park
You know the scariest drug I ever did?" What's that?" Sobriety. I tried that shit, and suddenly I realized that my girlfriend was insane and all my friends were assholes. 
Girl-in-black was explaining how much she enjoyed the fact that girl-in-white always wrote her handwritten notes. As she was explaining this, I noticed that girl-in-white's eyes were lighting up. She turned to girl-in-black and said: Can you cover your ears for a second? 
Then she leaned toward me and whispered: She doesn't know this yet, but it's our anniversary this weekend, and I've just covered the entire house in sticky notes. 
What was the saddest moment of your life?" Probably when our first pregnancy ended in a miscarriage." Had you chosen a name?" No. But we were given the remains to bring to a laboratory. And we named the jar. We named it "Formolin,' which is a derivative of the Spanish word for formaldehyde. We both have a very dark sense of humor. It's how we coped."
Today in microfashion.
All these kids are getting in trouble because parents aren't even allowed to discipline their children anymore. When I was growing up, if you did something wrong, you'd get whooped. Once I stole $5 from my aunt. I got whooped by my aunt, whooped by my mom, and whooped by my dad. That was three whoopings for $5. I never stole again. 
I think a lot of people confuse service with servitude. I'll bring you food, I'll pour you drinks, I'll make sure you have a good experience. But I'm not your bitch. 
We're coming up on a year of marriage." Tell me your favorite thing about each other."
Her ability to intuit my moods." Her living room choreography of every song that comes on the radio."
Haters gonna hate.
My father died two days ago." Was there closure between you? No." Why not?" He made a lot of choices he shouldn't have made, but it wasn't his fault." How did those choices affect you?" Because now I'm making the same choices."
Follow your heart." And where has that taken you?" Exotic climates." Such as?" Well I leave in three days to return to Kabul, where I'm currently stationed. Before that, it was Iraq for three years. Then Burundi. Then South Africa, where I was Nelson Mandela's legal advisor."
Go to Brazil. Women all nude."
I worked at a factory until I was 40. Then one day I asked my boss for more vacation, and he said "no.' So I went home and told my husband: 'That man is getting on my nerves! I'm going to college tomorrow!' I was the oldest person there, but I made it through and got a good job with The City. Then a few months ago, somebody walked up to my desk, and said: 'Why are you still working? You're 75 years old!' So I walked over to my boss, and said 'I'm retiring tomorrow!'"
We just graduated." So what's the craziest thing you learned in high school?"
Choose your friends wisely." Mind your own business." Trig. 
My daughter dumped the nicest guy in the world, and married an asshole! The guy is driving me nuts."
What are you reading?" It's about the universe. Actually, that's an oversimplification. It's about the concept of a multiverse."
We've been married 31 years." How'd you meet?" I saw her on a bus, put my watch in my pocket, sat down next to her, and asked her for the time."
The economy's going to hell! Hide your money under the mattress. 
What was the saddest moment of your life?" When my dad died of a brain tumor on my 14th birthday." Were you close?" Well, that's tough to say. He had a lot of mental problems. For awhile he thought I was the Messiah, and that I could do anything. It was weird, because on one hand, it was the most anyone has ever believed in me. On the other hand, it felt hollow."
Today in microfashion.
Seen in East Village
I took this photo just a few minutes ago. She was sitting outside of a bar. As I photographed her, she kept inhaling deeply, then exhaling slowly. Man,"  I thought, I'm really annoying this girl."  Until
What was the saddest moment of your life?" Right now." What happened?" The person I love wants to take a break. He's still inside. 
He handed me a business card.
It said: Checker Pimp."
What was the saddest moment of your life?" When my mom died." What was your favorite thing about your mother?" She was determined. If she said "yes,' it meant 'yes.' If she said 'no,' it meant 'no.' No matter freezing cold or high water. There was only one thing that she said she'd do that she never did." What was that?" She told me she'd get me a Texaco truck. Not a real one. A toy one. But she never did." Why not?" Well, we we're going through hell back then."
What's your favorite thing about her?" Her laughter. I can't live without that sunshine."
Some things got in the way, I ended up doing things the wrong way, and so here I am."
My dad taught me a lot about business." What was the most important thing he taught you?He taught me to always play it straight." And what resulted from that?" I feel clean."
My son just had a mental episode. I'm sitting here watching all these young people having fun, and I'm just thinking that I want so bad for him to be back to normal." Do you mind if I share that?" I'm afraid someone will recognize me. 
I don't answer questions before I've had my coffee." But what am I supposed to write?" You'll think of something."
What's your greatest struggle right now?" My next beer."
People need to wake up!" From what?" The dream." What dream?" The dream that's keeping everyone from waking up!"
What's the most frightened you've ever been?" I thought my sister died once because she left me this crazy voicemail. But turned out she was just on mushrooms. 
We met when I left a funny comment on a blog post. I was living in Australia when I wrote the comment, and it made her laugh in Austria. So she sent me an email, and we began writing to each other everyday. Eventually we met. I was afraid the excitement would fade when we met face-to-face, but it never did. We got married last week, on the seventh anniversary of that comment."
Last weekend she rode her bike around Prospect Park all by herself."
I'm gonna take him home and shag him rotten."
Seen in The Meatpacking District.
8 wrecks, 3 heart attacks, a broken pelvis, and two strokes. These guys actually have to lift me onto my bike. 
I'm an artist."
Any advice for someone who wants to be an artist?"
You either need to be extremely talented or have rich parents."
What was the most frightened you've ever been?"
Having a son when I was 18. But he just turned 28. Everything came out fine."
The Benchnic
I'm a kick boxer and I own a restaurant." How do those two things relate?" They both require maintaining a calm center in the midst of chaos. 
We went to the same high school, but weren't really friends. He joined the Navy for ten years, and when he came home, I happened to be working in the same retirement home that his grandmother was in. We met in the lobby. He tried to tell a joke about having been all around the world while I stayed at home, but it backfired and made me cry."
Today in epic African formalwear. 
What's the most that bird's ever surprised you?" I took him to Long Beach one day. He started jumping up and down, flapping his wings, and saying: "It's water! It's water! 
Seen in Bedford-Stuyvesant
What was the saddest moment of your life?" When I got taken away from my mom when I was six." Do you still speak with her?" Honestly, I wouldn't even know what to say to her. I don't even remember her face. But I remember that day."
What's the funniest thing you've seen on this block?"
Probably that time the crackhead was running from the cops in his slippers. He wasn't even running really, he was skiing. "
I was taking a portrait of a group of kids, when one of the girls stood up and said: Let me do that."
Society undervalues creativity. Many people think creativity just means decorating your room well, or choosing the right colors for your clothes. In reality, creativity is what underlies all change. Without creativity, the world would be stagnant."
Zap!
He wanted to hold her hand so badly.
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Be yourself."
I'm getting my Master's degree."
Today in skate style.
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Be kind and thoughtful." What's your greatest struggle right now?" Being kind and thoughtful. Because I've got some friends that are driving me freaking nuts."
My ex-girlfriend seemed to love me a lot more than I loved her, so I made the mistake of thinking I didn't love her."
Peter Parker gets cocky, allows himself to be photographed wearing Spider-Man shirt.
I watch him sometimes while his mother's at work. She watches my kids sometimes. You know neighborhood stuff."

Today in microfashion.
Life Is A Gamble
What was the happiest day of your life?" When I got this job."
I'm a Brooklyn Assistant D.A. I work on domestic violence cases many of them homicides. Some of the crime scenes are just gruesome. It's the same stuff soldiers see in a war. I see this stuff, I smell this stuff, it's hard to get out of your mind. And even when I win a case, it's hard to feel like I'm making a difference. It's a never-ending cycle of violence. The offenders are so likely to offend again. And the women are likely to go right back to them, or find themselves in a similar relationship. The work is so tough, and it feels like I'm not even making a dent."
Seen on the subway.
When our friends are discussing something, he'll just sit back quietly and observe. So when he finally does say something, it's very considered and carries a lot of weight."

I grew up in this house. I was actually standing right here when I first saw my husband. I was ten years old, and he came riding by on his bike, and I said: "I want to know that boy!' Is he inside?" He passed away in 2000. But we had 37 good years together. 
Do you remember the happiest moment of your life?" Yep. My 15th birthday." What happened?" It was a month before my mom passed away. She pretended like she'd forgotten my birthday, and didn't say anything to me all morning. I was so mad that day at school. But when I got home, she'd made this huge cake for me. I was so happy."
What was the saddest moment of your life?" When my good friend died." What's the best day you ever spent together?" Sitting in the woods, in the fall, skipping rocks."
Where I grew up, everyone called each other "nigger' all the time. It was meant to be endearing, but I don't think it's healthy. Words have energy. If you were to refer to a child as 'satan' his entire life, how do you think he'd turn out? So I'm trying something new. Whenever I see someone, I refer to them as 'mister' or 'missus.' I'm trying to put that energy onto people."
I was sixteen and raising myself. My friends gave me money just to drive the car. It seemed safe."
I'm a street pharmacist."
What's the best part about being a grandfather?" I know what I'm doing this time around."
En garde!
It was easier to meet people back in Mali. People would speak to each other on the street. Here, people keep their distance. If you want to make a friend, you have to do it at the office or a club."
I've got a problem with procrastination. And it's especially bad now, because I've got this opportunity to write for a music magazine. The thing is I know what I should be doing: reaching out to bands, doing interviews, networking with new bands before they get big. I know that it's going to involve hustling every single day. And I hope this doesn't make me sound like a loser, but I have trouble getting revved up on any given day to start down the path." Can I give one piece of advice?" Sure." Instead of focusing on the million things you need to do to be successful, focus on two or three things you can do to move forward each day. The quickest way out of paralysis is a simple daily routine."
Even before he could talk, we'd have these mental conversations with our eyes."
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Take those phones you're on, shove em' up your arses, and go to work."
Every nickel I have goes to rent and student loans. You know what I eat every day? Half a dozen eggs and four cans of these beans."
I came to America when I was 14. My mother told me that books were too heavy to bring, and I had this crazy idea that I'd never be able to replace them, so I copied all my favorite Russian poems by hand."
Right now I'm not even sure if college is for me." Why's that?" Well, I'm going to sound a bit like a hippy but everyone tells you to "follow your own path,' then you're put into an institution where you're funneled down these predetermined tracks. Then you're packaged up and regurgitated back into society. Like you're a GI Joe. Or a Barbie. 
After I took his photo, we started talking, and I suggested that he may want to move out of the road a bit. You should move out of the road,"  he said. Nobody's gonna hit a Hispanic guy, cause they know they'll have to fight."
61 years today!"
62."
61."
62."
Can we take one more picture, without my glasses?"
I have one daughter and one adopted daughter." What were your reasons for adopting?" We adopted my niece when her mother died. She was about seven at the time. But you want to know the crazy thing? Back when she was four months old, she was sitting on my lap, and I turned to my wife and said: "We're going to be raising this girl.'" What made you say that?" I don't know. I just said it." So how was her transition to your family?" It was tough the first year. But I can tell you this: she is unquestionably a sister to my daughter, and a daughter to me and my wife."
Pit Stop
I asked his favorite thing about his son, and he replied: That he's very loving."  Hearing this, the boy asked:What about basketball?" The dad answered: I like that you're good at basketball. But my favorite thing is that you're very loving."
I've got a son on the way." Are you going to college?" Well things are a little different for me, because I'm still on parole. I went to Rikers when I was 15. They didn't even send me to juvenile because there was an issue with my birth certificate. They said I was 16, but in reality I was the only 15 year old in Rikers." What were you there for?" Robbery and assault. But honestly, I was in the wrong place at the wrong time. A group of people beat up a guy in front of my house. The guy pointed me out and said I was involved, but I wasn't." Were they your friends?" Some of them were." So how did that experience affect the way you're going to move forward?" Well, you know, at this point, I've seen it all. I know how people in the hood act. And I know how people in normal society act. Hopefully I'll be able to guide my son better because I've seen both sides and I know what to avoid."
Save your money. Even if you've got a good job. Cause once you get high enough up the ladder, they'll knock you off and replace you with a young whippersnapper who costs less. That's how it works in this town."
When you're young, you don't want to work. When you're old, you work to stay young. Your blood slows down when you get old. Work makes your blood go fast."
I rushed through life. Now I'm relaxing. And I've gotten more out of relaxing than I did out of rushing." What were you rushing toward?" Achievements." Didn't you get satisfaction from your achievements?" No. They only caused me to want more achievements. 
After I took his photo, his coworkers showed me a video of him deep throating a banana. Just reporting the facts.
What's your favorite thing about your sister?"
She's my friend."
we are a beautiful peopleeven with EBT, tooth loss,pepsis in our mouthbeautiful diamondsand two legged goldgods migrating from the southushers of zen and christianitydaily resisting white privilegeand insanityconjuring floods and storm clouds,but still lacking cloutthe only ones despairing, joyfuland obedient enough to avert global calamityby forcing the world to recognizecommon humanitywe cannot be freeunless they relinquish theirlove of expansion and captivity
I didn't have a happy childhood." If you could say something to yourself as a child, what would it be?" It's not your fault."
Do you mind if I take your photograph?" Are you working for Obama?"
This child is being groomed for Rock and Roll greatness.
Once I smoked some DMT and saw giant machines of infinite time. 
I actually got dumped through the American embassy. I was supposed to move to India with my girlfriend. I went a few days early to find us a place, but ended up smoking some opium-laced hash and passed out for 24 hours. My girlfriend couldn't reach me, went through my email, and decided I was cheating on her. So when I woke up, I went to the embassy to check on some things, and some lady told me: You have a message from Diana. She's never talking to you again. 
And just when I thought the caption couldn't get any more ridiculous, he said: By the way, I'm Gang Rapist #37 on last week's episode of Law and Order SVU."
What was the scariest moment of your life?" Iraq, in "05." What happened?" I don't like to talk about that."
I'm a sculptor." Oh, cool. How would you describe your sculptures?" Satanic. 
No more work."
I found these two walking arm-in-arm, ever-so-slowly, up a staircase in the subway station. When I asked for a photo, they posed just like this. 
Is this your mother or grandmother?"  I asked.
Oh no,"  he said. I just met her on the train."

You don't need a church to talk to God. Just talk to God when you are walking down the street."
He didn't have time to chat. Probably had to get back to the time machine before sundown.
My daughter died of a brain aneurysm when she was thirty. She wasn't a baby, but she was my baby."
Last week, I photographed a young girl on a bicycle. She told me that she planned to be an artist, because she'd been to an art museum, and her scribbles look just like modern art."  For some reason I didn't immediately put her picture on the blog. Which turned out to be a good thing, because I just ran into her again on the subway, looking like this.
I found these two ladies strolling outside of their assisted living home. They were super friendly, but spoke very little English. But from what I was able to comprehend:
Lady In Purple is from Puerto Rico, while Lady In Red is from Colombia. Purple thinks that Red has a good heart"  because she calls everyday,"  brings coffee up to her room,"  and takes care of sick people."
Her name is Tasi Luna. It means Ocean Moon."
I love her randomness." Tell me about a time she was random." Three hours ago. I went to pick her up, and I found her double-dutching on the sidewalk with some kids. Then she went inside and came out wearing this."
I want to be a teacher." What do you think will be the hardest part about being a teacher?" Listening to the kids."
I'm 92 years old."
What's your secret?"
Lots of sex."
Ladies want a wheel man.
What's the most frightened you've ever been?" Probably when my sister got diagnosed with leukemia. Oh man, is she doing OK?" She's fine. My brother gave her a bone marrow transplant. She recovered fully, quit her job, went to nursing school, and now works at the same hospital that treated her."
I want to be President of the United States." What do you think will be the hardest part about being president?" You have to do all your homework."
I asked her for a piece of advice. She reached in her purse, pulled out a piece of paper, and handed it to me. It said this:

Life isn't fair, but it's still good. Life is too short enjoy it. Cry with someone. It's more healing than crying alone. Make peace with your past so it won't screw up the present and the future. It's OK to let your children see you cry.
Don't compare your life to others. You have no idea what their journey is all about. If a relationship has to be secret, you shouldn't be in it. 
Take a deep breath, it calms the mind. Everything can change in the blink of an eye. It's never too late to be happy. But it's all up to you and no one else. When it comes time to go after what you love in life, don't take no for an answer. Burn the nice candles, use the nice sheets, wear the nice lingerie, wear the nice clothes. Don't save it for a special occasion. Today is special.
Over prepare, then go with the flow. No one is in charge of your happiness but you. Frame every so-called disaster with these words: "In five years will this matter?' Always choose life. Forgive but don't forget. Time heals almost everything. Give time, time. However good or bad a situation is, it will change. All that truly matters in the end is that you loved.
If we all threw our problems in a pile and we saw everyone else's, we'd grab our's back. Envy is a waste of time. Accept what you already have, not what you need. Yield. Friends are the family we choose. Life isn't tied with a bow, but it's still a gift.*


*Some Google sleuthing revealed the author of these tidbits to be Regina Brett:
We are heading in the direction of an enlightened period."
Today in microfashion
I'm a drag king."
Just trying to stay inspired in a tumultuous world. 
Seen in Williamsburg
What was the happiest moment of your life?" When I left home and went to Hollywood." Did you want to be an actor?" Nope, just wanted to go to Hollywood."
After knowing her for six years, I called her and said: "I've got to go on a date with you right now.' She'd just gotten back from yoga, so she told me: 'I'm wearing yoga pants, and I've got yoga hair, but meet me for coffee in 15 minutes.'"
So wait why all this urgency after six years?"
She was a teacher at my son's school. I thought I'd wait until he graduated."
I turned to the woman and asked if she'd been expecting the call. Not at all,"  she said. I thought he was calling about tutoring."
Not bad for a bridesmaid's dress! Cause usually they're the shits."
I'm a dinosaur!"
Prom Queen
Seen in Midtown
They're the coordinates of the cabin in Arizona where I almost died of carbon monoxide poisoning. Just a reminder."
Mom told me they were six years old, causing them to scream, at the exact same time: Six and a half!"
Seen in Bryant Park
Don't smoke cigarettes."
How many surgeries have you performed?" Five or six hundred." And how many hours do you work per week?" I work 5:30 AM to 7 PM. Six days a week. Or seven. 
I hated God for a long time."
What was your greatest moment of kickboxing glory?"
My dad is a super. I kicked in a locked door for him recently."
I asked Wendell for his photo. He said: "There's too many of you, not enough of me.'"
I had too many women back in "81. I kept getting jammed up."
The Shadertons
What was the saddest moment of your life?" Probably when my grandfather died. He was the father figure in my life." Do you remember the happiest time you spent with your grandfather?" A couple weeks before he died, he wrote a song for me. He had me sing it while he played the guitar, and he recorded it on one of those really old tape decks." Do you remember the words?"
Well, the song was in Spanish, but it said:
My grandson is black, American black,the love of my heart,from different worlds,but still the same."
As part of the custody trial, the judge ordered me to attend parenting classes. I was humiliated at first, because most of the guys in the class had been incarcerated, but I decided to make the best of it. I started counseling all the other fathers in there. I mainly encouraged them to stand up for their rights, and to not let their child's mother hold their past over their heads. Anyway, at the end of the program, the director nominated me for a citywide Father Of The Year Award. He wrote a long letter about me. How about that? 
I originally wanted to work in advertising design, but that didn't work out. Maybe it's for the best though. If something requires advertising, I probably don't want to be helping to sell it."
I asked: What's the most romantic thing he's ever done?"
Her: Well, there have been many things" Him: What about that time in Geneva?" Her: When you were in Baghdad?" Him: No, the other time."
Then I asked, When were you in Baghdad?" And he said, Which time?"
Last guy who messed with him got whacked.
Perhaps the most inspiring story in New York right now is the I.S. 318 Chess Team. I.S. 318 is a junior high school in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. It's students face many challenges. Over 60% come from families below the federal poverty level. Year after year, however, I.S. 318 turns out the most respected junior high chess team in the nation. They've won several national championships. 

Last year, they became the first junior high team in history to win the National HIGH SCHOOL championship. 

Here is team coordinator John Galvin, pictured with one of his chess superstars, Kevin. Both of Kevin's parents emigrated from Mexico, and currently work hard in the restaurant industry so that Kevin can have every opportunity possible. Kevin is currently the 3rd highest ranked player at I.S. 318. Your parents have to be so proud,"  I said.

Oh yeah,"  he answered.


Currently the  has 318 likes. Can we show these amazing kids some support?
When I was 15 years old, my mother and I were in a speedboat off the coast of Venezuela. There was a hole in the boat, and it started filling up with water. At one point, the tip of the boat started going under and water just started rushing in. I said: "Lord, if you get me out of this one, I will serve you forever!'"
Seen in East Village
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?"
Eat healthy."
We timed our wedding so we could honeymoon at Star Wars Week at Disney World, then walked down the aisle to the Imperial Death March."
His main interests are spinning around and running into things."
I used to make clothes for dead people."
Today in microfashion
My mom moved to New York, and left me in Jamaica from the age of 5 to 13. I was angry with her when I finally got here, but things are fine now. Did you have any siblings?" A younger brother. She brought him with her." Why didn't she bring you too?" Honestly, I've never wanted to ask. 
I want to study nuclear engineering at MIT." What interests you most about nuclear energy?" I like that you can't see it. You have to trust that it's there, and trust what you know. 
He doesn't always waltz.But when he does, it's in public.
I feel stuck."
What's keeping you stuck, exactly?"
If I knew that, I'd be unstuck."
We have a routine every time we get on a bus. We each tell the driver a joke.
He says: "What happens if you run in front of a bus?''You get run down.'
Then I say:'What happens if you run behind a bus?''You get exhausted.'
One time we made a lady laugh so hard that it sent the entire bus into a laughter meditation."
Seen in Times Square
I found a mini-HONY.
Oh my God, HONY. Where were you five minutes ago? I was just twerking in Shake Shack."
Can we get a reenactment?"
Good Hair
I’ll give you advice but you can’t take my picture.
OK.
Make friends with the bear, but hold onto your gun.
My daughter made me a card for her own birthday. She spelled "daughter' and 'excited' wrong, but I didn't care."

My priorities are a little tangled up right now." How do you mean?" I need to start thinking more about saving and college, and less about clothes and phones."
We met in August, started dating in September, got engaged in October, and married in November. That was 43 years ago. 
As I was setting up the shot, she started giving me instructions. Say something funny,"  she said. What?" This needs to look natural, so make me smile. Say something charming." Oh, ok I'm drawing a blank." Say something quick." Umm." Then she leaned forward and shouted: "NOSTRIL HAIR!'
Pretty sure I just took the best Google Glass picture in existence.
I'm starting a blog for seniors!"
I asked them to tell me the happiest moment of their lives. The first kid said: When I met my real dad."  Suddenly doubtful of the gravity of his response, the second kid replied a bit sheepishly: When I got my first computer."
From the look on Dad's face, they're on pace for a record breaking time.
My wife and my baby died at the same time."
He started out cracking jokes, but when I showed him the format of the blog, he got very serious and said: 
I know what I want you to write by my photo." What's that?" Good people find each other. Bad people get found out."
One time this old lady on 79th Street got really impatient for her package, and started rummaging around in the back of our truck. So we just locked her in and called the cops."
I just came back from a commencement ceremony. An old student of mine just got his Master's Degree in Social Work. He grew up in group homes and foster care. He was a handful back when I taught him, but we never gave up on him and he never gave up on himself. And now look at him. He's already talking about getting his doctorate. Seeing him up there in those robes my mind is just filled up with images from today."
Seen at Coney Island
I tried running for office once." What'd you learn from that experience?" That you're never going to cram an idea down someone's throat. The best you can do is lead by example."
What was the happiest moment of your life?" I've got to catch a cab."
I also once tried to wear a pink handkerchief scarf, pink-trimmed leather shirt, and pink feather earring. But then I looked in the mirror and decided to leave that shit to the pros. 
Batman agreed to be photographed. Under one condition.
I'm trying to release my inner child into the world."
There's six people in every relationship: you, the person you think you are, and the person your partner thinks you are. Then there's your partner, the person they think they are, and the person you think they are."
What do you want to be when you grow up?"
A big boy."
I won a dance competition once. For a moment I was king."
Listen partner, I messed up my whole life. I dropped out of high school, I got into drugs, I spent 10 years in prison for killing a man. In my old neighborhood, you were either a cop, a criminal, or a blue collar stiff. I chose to be a criminal. Now I'm a blue collar stiff, and I wish I'd been one my whole life."
What's the most you've ever pissed off a superior officer?"
I whistled at one's girlfriend. He got pretty annoyed. I was like: "Whatever.' Actually I was like 'Whatever, sir.'"
So much of the person I've become is due to the fact that I've looked up to my brother my whole life."
He plays with me."
This is the third one I've saved."
The Readertons
What was the saddest moment of your life?"
When I was separated from my mom."
What happened?"
It's a long story."
We've known each other for 35 years, been dating for 6 weeks, and just got engaged on the plane ride over." So what was your relationship for the other 34 years?" He was my ex-husband's best friend."
It's not how it sounds,"  said the man. They've been divorced for 13 years. I didn't stampede or anything."
I'm a graphic artist." Describe your art in three words." Freedom, space, time."
I'm going home to see my mother."
Oh, is it her birthday?"
Nope. I just love my mother, and she loves flowers."
Craigslist."
Look at this thing.
I wonder why bad things happen to me. Probably because I'm a bad person."
World's friendliest looking dog spotted off 5th Ave.
Seen in Harlem
Is there a particular memory that represents childhood for you?"
Probably laying in bed when my parents had parties, listening to my parents' friend play guitar downstairs, and eavesdropping on all the adults with their cocktails."
How do you view those adults differently now that you've become one?"
I realize all the shit they were dealing with."
Is there a moment that you look back on as your "low point' in Vietnam?"
Yeah. Thirty minutes before we got there. When the plane took off in New Jersey, everyone was laughing and playing cards. When it came in for a landing, the plane was dead quiet. Everyone was looking out the window and thinking about their lives."
Last night I was at a YMCA event celebrating the success of its annual Strong Kids fundraising campaign. A video was shown where a man named Anthony explained how he got brain cancer, was paralyzed on the left side of his body, and was rehabilitated by trainers at his local Y. The climatic moment came when Anthony explained how he was so happy that he could hold his son again, because he'd been so afraid that his son would think that he didn't love him anymore. During the video, Anthony's son ran out of the audience and started clapping at the screen, Anthony followed close behind him.

Glanced next to me on the subway. Saw this.
Everyone should find God's voice, and follow it."
How do you tell the difference between God's voice and your own?"
Practice meditating everyday. You'll realize that there's a silence underlying everything. That's where God lies."
Seems like it'd be tough to listen to a silent voice."
That's why you need to practice meditating."
I just won MVP on my soccer team!"
I'm either going to be a construction worker, a scientist, or one of those people who help animals."
A night of passion, a lifetime of responsibility.
Knotted Up
We've been friends since we were 13."
What's the most fun you've ever had together?"
Oh, we don't know"
Well, what's the hardest you've ever laughed together?"
Now you listen here! I want you to write down these questions you're asking us, pull them out when you're 85 years old, and see if you can answer them yourself!"
After this I go to work at a pizza shop. My wife and I were college professors in Bangladesh. I taught accounting. But one dollar in America becomes eighty dollars when we send it back home."
I tend to click well with quiet people because they let me talk a lot."
Neat moment at the Webbys last night. Fresh off the $1.1 billion sale of his company, David Karp was there with his mother, Barbara. Though I'd never met her before, Barbara came over to my seat and gave me the world's biggest hug. She kept saying: I am so, so proud of you." I said to David: Your mom just made me feel like the most special guy in the world." He said: That's how she's made me feel my whole life."
We met at summer camp. 
Image is very important to me. But I'm always asking myself: "How much is personal expression, and how much is facade?' 
Seen on the subway.
He's twenty years old. I try to take him outside whenever I can so that he can have some new experiences before, you know"
I've passed by this doorman on about ten different occasions, and he's been singing show tunes every single time. I know there's someone out there who lives on E 83rd Street that can back me up on this.
I went to an all-white high school and an all-black college."
What was the main difference between them?"
 the people."
I've never used a cellphone or computer."
What's the meanest thing anyone's ever said to you?"
Die of AIDS, you cocksucker."
Mother Joyous and Sister Adorable were seen walking down 14th Street yesterday.
You've got to respect a man who refuses to pretend like he's having a good day.
Before it was all about us. Now it's all about him."
There was a drunk man on the train that everyone was trying to ignore. She saw that he was holding an inhaler, and offered him her seat. 
Every country is good for different reasons. They are like different fruits. But Egypt is my favorite. Egypt is like a mango. 
Seen in Jackson Heights
An article I wrote for my good friends at  detailing my experience in Iran, and the admitted absurdity of my initial expectations: 
After micromanaging his own photo—a process which included several minor posture readjustments—he went on a passionate monologue about how we are living in heaven, and the earth provides everything we need, including his suit, and my camera.
There were varying degrees of enthusiasm toward the photo shoot. The youngest were gung-ho from the start, but Grandma kept trying to walk away.
Seen in Jackson Heights
I worked hard, I was honest, I provided for my family, and I took care of my parents."
I sat by that stroller and called out her name for three minutes: Julia, Julia, Juuulllliiiiiiaa."  But she wouldn't emerge. Finally this happened. 
You get one picture, then I'm going about my business."
Turning Pink
Do you remember the hardest you've ever laughed?" Yes, but it's stupid and simple." What was it?" My sisters and I were dancing around the living room in our socks, and I tried to do a kick, but ended up throwing my legs out from under me and landing on my butt."
One of them pointed at a passing rollerblader and said: Why don't you photograph him instead?"  Another one answered for me:Because he's not a Hasid with a chihuahua. 
What's the most scared you've ever been?" When I got ejected out of a car at 80 mph." Yikes. Where'd you land?" I landed in a tree. My friend landed on the pavement. He's the one you need to photograph."
I was walking through Bryant Park when a girl ran up to me, tapped me on the shoulder, and asked if I could photograph her group of friends. I actually said no,"  which is my general rule for on-the-street requests, but then I turned around and saw twenty kids waving at me. 
They had just finished demonstrating on behalf of The Fair Elections Act. According to their explanation, the act lessens the influence of corporate money in political campaigns by magnifying the effect of individual donors. 
Every dollar donated to a campaign by a private citizen would be matched by $6 in public money. 
Anyway, they reassembled their demonstration for my benefit. They described it as a visual representation of how our politicians are tied up by corporations. 
:

Brandon Stanton of  gave a TEDx talk at Columbia University about how our perception of the world is being affected by the media’s focus on good stories. Here’s our short summary of his points: 


My last wife was 47 years older than me.
47 years???"
Yep. We met when she was 80 and I was 33. She came to the nursing home where I worked, and everyday she would spend six hours with her dying husband. I said to myself: "If she ever loves me like that, I'll be OK.' We married a couple years later, and stayed together until she died at the age of 96. If I had any money, I'd make a movie about it."
I really started running when I was 18, right after my dad died. I was doing 17 miles every day. It was my own way of facing death each night and beating it."
What's your greatest struggle right now?" Interacting with other people." In what way?" In this way."
I want to be an artist."
What kind of art do you want to make?"
I want to make different versions of myself."
Do you need the cane?"
I need it when I'm wearing these shoes."
If you let your gum air out for a few seconds, it's more of a challenge when you put it back in."
We talked for a few minutes. She told me that she'd had a plan to join the Navy out of high school, but that fell apart because her knees were bad. She told me that she'd just finished working a 12 hour shift on a food truck. She told me that she'd moved to New York for no reason, just to get out of Kansas. But I'm so glad I came,"  she said.
Why's that?"  I asked. Her eyes began to water.
Because I'm so in love with a girl right now."
Every thought you have seeps into your blood."
What's the most scared you've ever been?"
Probably when I was detoxing from alcohol. The first time."
How long after that did you have your next drink?"
Twenty days."
I ain't never made a doll before, and it came out perfect! 
SHOWDOWN
Amazon: Barnes and Noble:
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Keep your powder dry." What does that mean?" I'm not sure. I think it's an 18th Century thing." Ok well, what's your greatest struggle right now?" Getting across this road is gonna be pretty tough."
Why were you homeless?"
It just got to a point where my mom couldn't maintain anymore. The sad part was that it was during high school. So I had to keep it a secret. Cause, you know, it's high school."
Seen in Hudson River Park
My Spidey Sense is telling me that somebody awesome is nearby. 
What are you working toward?" Being the boss. 
I want to be a police officer.
What’s the best part of being a police officer?
Protecting people.
What’s the worst part?
Probably the gun fights.
In perhaps our most epic fan art submission to date, Nathanael de Boer and Emma McCann have recreated a HONY portrait using burnt toast.
He gave me his cold. 
What's your greatest struggle right now?" Fear of my writing. Sharing my writing, in particular." Will you email me something you wrote tonight?"
Less Fear"  By Sade Johnson 
America take restI was born No poetBorn laces to television archaic computer lemming gamesWalmart target home depot banks 
Big man take restI was born No loverBorn sage-less wise crackerAbandoned lot mower for petrified native broken horn blowers
Savage take restI was born No tin man tight vested slave authorBorn on No Puritanical pilgrimage not Lord wrought No Kings vestige 
Youth take restI was born a silver-tongued tight fisted counter daughterFire starting ageist hippyEmpty gun waving barbiturate sippingAnti- nun
I take restI was born No fool
You look kinda like Ernest Hemingway." And we're both from Key West." You're from Key West?" Well, I used to smuggle coke out of there."
Seen in Washington Square Park
We just got back from the prom."
Did you have dates?"
Um, yeah. 
I'm sketching out my next film."
What's it about?"
It's sort of a romantic Jurassic Park. Except the dinosaurs have jetpacks."
Don't lie about something before you've given it a chance to become true."
Pounce?"
It's to remind me to be more aggressive."
There are so many bodies that I want to paint. 
When you yell at someone, who hears it more: you or them? You're only hurting yourself by getting angry. I want to live to be 100. I haven't raised my voice in 40 years."
What was your first impression of America?"
I wondered why everyone was rushing."
My Foster Dad told me that if I didn't tell anyone, he wouldn't hurt my brother. But then he raped him."
The man in the top hat was rapping for tips. When someone made a donation, he'd ask their name, then build a rap around their name. When this boy walked by, however, he gave him a rap, free of charge: 
Damien, listen,Mom and Dad will always be your best friend.You got a problem that's about to take you over?Take it,and put it,on Mom and Dad's shoulders"
What's your greatest struggle right now?"
Building a fence in my back yard."
Oh c'mon."
I'm serious. I married my best friend, I live on the Atlantic Ocean, I've played music my entire life. But this fence is giving me trouble!"
Someone named Christopher Russo just posted this on my Facebook wall:
Hi I love your page a lot by the way I am a hero because I saved someone that got stuck in a subway train door please share this too so that everyone knows I am a great person."
When I clicked on his profile picture, I saw that he'd won several medals in the Special Olympics. So it seems that not only is Christopher a hero and a great person, but he's also a great athlete. Here's your post, Christopher. You're awesome.
I never married."
Why not?"
Because you didn't come along until today."
I cured myself of schizophrenia."
How'd you do that?"
I stopped listening to the voices."
When the world gets tough, a girl's gotta keep on pushin'.
I said you could take my picture. Now you're asking me questions and this is turning into a big deal."
My town in Colombia is very beautiful. I don't travel because I want to leave my home. I travel because I need to know why I'm staying."
If you could give one pice of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?"
Disperse. If you're in a group, you're a target."
I photographed the little guy on the left because he was carrying a violin. During the post photo interview, his little brother kept chiming in with his own answers. It was clear that he wanted to be part of the process. After a few questions, the older one called to his brother: Come be in my picture, Riley."
One of my plays is getting produced!"
What's it about?"
So there's this guy, and he really loves this one girl she's the girl of his dreams. But she's going off to college. So he applies to every nearby college, just so he can be close to her. But the only college that accepts him is a clown college. But here's the thing he's terrified of clowns."
Seen in Alphabet City
Seen in Union Square
What was the happiest moment of your life?"
When I got my red toy!"
I'm pleased to introduce the three young visionaries who are bringing us the Christopher Walken HONYSaurus Rex. They are standing by a partially constructed leg, which is just a rough draft and without the skin, of course."
Our team may not have the latest in robotics or dinosaur building equipment, but here are some things we do have: youth, raw genius, a dream, some cash, God's blessing, and this one teacher at Isaac's school who knows a lot about this stuff and who went to Yale or something."
Anyway, I'll be bringing you the latest as it happens. 
What was your greatest moment of basketball glory?"
I don't think it's happened yet."
Ball Busters
Twelve years, twenty one prisons. But I ain't going back. 
Sigh.
Something interesting is going down in the front row. Looks like Little Man is straining through something tough, and the girl next to him is lending moral support. If that's the case, things aren't looking good for the back row. 
The Big Secret
Seen at The Metropolitan Museum of Art

She saved my life."
Thanks for a great week, San Francisco.
What do you miss most about Norway?" The mountains and fjords."
(San Francisco, CA)
I just got accepted to a competitive animation program!"
(San Francisco, CA)
No English."

(San Francisco, CA)
He's always there for me, even during tough times." What's one tough time he was there for you?" When our dad got diagnosed with brain cancer."
(San Francisco, CA)
Discarded
(San Francisco, CA)
I'm trying to stay in the present and not worry so much about the future." What specifically about the future do you worry about?" You know, things, like am I going to be alone?"
(San Francisco, CA)
After I took the photo, the man stuck around to give me his contact information. After a couple minutes, his wife started calling impatiently from outside. I waited 40 years for her,"  he said. She can wait 5 minutes for me."
(San Francisco, CA)
I'm trying to keep away from bad energy."
(San Francisco, CA)
I play drums in a horror influenced trashy rock and roll band."
(San Francisco, CA)
What do you want to be when you grow up?" A mother. Like my mommy."
(San Francisco, CA)
What am I going to do with the rest of my life?"
(San Francisco, CA)
I'm supposed to be better than I am."
What do you mean?"
I don't behave like I'm expected to. But one day I will."

(San Francisco, CA)
He loves me."

(San Francisco, CA)
I collect socks. I have about 40 pairs." Which socks get the most comments?" Definitely my Virgin Mary socks."
(Seen at Facebook HQ)
Our most popular haircut right now is probably a fade with a part on top. It's a hipster haircut." I'd call it a classic gentleman's haircut."  it's a hipster haircut. 
(Seen at Facebook HQ)
Seen on 15th Street
(San Francisco, CA)
Walked up on this guy giving free skateboarding lessons to kids at the local Boys and Girls Club. Champion. 
(San Francisco, CA)
I just came back from a job interview." So tell me about a time you went above and beyond." Ahh man, fuck that shit."
(San Francisco, CA)
I used to be the only male working on a sex podcast. Every week they'd try to get me to try a new synthetic vagina. 
(Seen at Facebook HQ)
I love thorns! They're sexy and dangerous. Even though you know they'll hurt you, you still want to crawl in them."

HONY/Vogue.com Punk Collection:  
I want to be a clothing designer."
What's the hardest part about designing clothes?"
Designing them."

(San Francisco, CA)
I run the culinary operations here." What's Mark Zuckerberg's favorite food?" I really shouldn't say." Oh, c'mon." Goat cheese filled dates wrapped with bacon. 
(Seen at Facebook HQ)
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would that piece of advice be? 
It’s easier to change the world than you think. But most people don’t have the balls to try. Except don’t say ‘balls.’ Say ‘courage’ instead. 
(Seen at Facebook HQ)
If you're going to internet week, come nerd out with me.  I have nerd secrets to share.
What's your greatest struggle right now?" My whole family is in India."
(Seen at Facebook HQ)
It's symbolizes my family tree."
So do the clocks represent the finite nature of life?"
I don't know, dude. I got it when I was 18."

(San Francisco, CA)
Whenever I'm feeling down, I try to make a gratitude list. And at the top I always put my health."

(San Francisco, CA)
I'd move heaven and earth to get my daughter to ballet practice. 
(Seen at Facebook HQ)
What's your favorite thing about your son-in-law?"
He's kind and generous."
And what's your favorite thing about your mother-in-law?"
She's old and ugly."

(San Francisco, CA)
We're advertising the Ski and Snowboard Club.  You don't need to ski or snowboard, as long as you can party."

(San Francisco, CA)
What's been the biggest surprise of parenthood?"
How much they're like you. I didn't realize I'd be raising myself."
(Seen at Facebook HQ)
My parents were missionaries, so I grew up all over. I've lived in New York, Los Angeles, Budapest, and Moscow. And most of my friends were from missionary families, so they've moved on. My home is on Facebook now because it's hard for me to go home if that makes sense. Because my home was not a place. My home was a time, and a place. 
(Seen at Facebook HQ)
What do you miss most about the Midwest?"
Family, familiarity, certain details."
What details in particular?"
Well one thing the women have thighs. 

(Seen at Facebook HQ)
Is that flower real?"
Yeah, but it's made of plastic."

(San Francisco, CA)
I think we promote risk-taking among our employees more than most companies."
What's one way that shows itself?"
We don't insist on perfection before rolling out a new feature. We'll release a new feature while it's still being developed, and then build on the feedback."
(Seen at Facebook HQ)
I was a theology major. My left arm is creation Eve, the snake, all that. My right arm is the rapture Gabriel, The Devil, those things. 
(Seen at Facebook HQ)
I'm getting my PhD in Mechanical Engineering."
And what does a Mechanical Engineer do?"
Well, when a company wants something new, we take some old things and squish them together. There's a few more bits and bobs to it, but that's the general gist."
(San Francisco, CA)
Do you want to buy some caramel sea salt chocolate chip expresso brownies with walnuts and coconut? They have blue sparkles for a butterfly effect! 
(San Francisco, CA)
When we finished the shot, I glanced down at the photo and said: I could hug you right now."
No you couldn't,"  she said, I'm a fierce ass bitch. 
(San Francisco, CA)
People see my buttons and think I'm a radical, but I just stand for peace! Except North Korea. We should handle them."
It's been passed around between my friends. It's like The Sisterhood of The Travelling Pants. Except it's not pants. It's a snake vertebrae."
(San Francisco, CA)
What happened?"
It has to do with alcohol. I haven't really told the story to anyone."
Will you tell me?"
well, I'd been drinking everyday for several years. In 2009 I tried to quit. So I stopped drinking for two days, and I got so sick that I couldn't eat or sleep. But I still decided to try to go to work. I got so weak that I passed out in the BART station while I was waiting for the train. When I woke up, I was paralyzed from the waist down."
Oh man."
You want to know the sad part?"
What's that?"
I'm still drinking. Because of the loneliness."

(San Francisco, CA)
Seen at Twin Peaks
Duck, Duck, Goose

(San Francisco, CA)
My parents want me to be a doctor.   Not sure I'm feeling that."

(Seen at UC Berkeley)
Just sittin' here contemplatin' how I'm gonna get home."

(San Francisco, CA)
He twice declined to pose, but when he finally agreed, he really went to town.

(San Francisco, CA)
What’s the most romantic thing he’s ever done? Oh God, he’s hopeless. During our first year of marriage, he celebrated our anniversary every single month.
(San Francisco, CA)
Profound graffiti spotted on Market Street.

(San Francisco, CA)
Webby Awards were announced this morning. HONY got the Webby for Best Use of Photography. And, thanks to you, the People's Voice Award for Best Cultural Blog and Best Use of Photography. 
Great news to wake up to. Thanks everyone!
They normally throw these crates away at work, but I wanted to do shit with it! 
(San Francisco, CA)
Seen in Prospect Park
The rent keeps going up, and things keep getting tighter."
Trading Deadline
What's the best day you've ever spent together?"
Probably that day on the Ponts des Arts."
What'd you do?"
Just held hands."
Her name was Roya. 
It means Sweet Dreamer Fantasy,"  she said. 
OMG look at this one
I'm about to start work on a film."
What's it about?"
I can't say. It's an investigative documentary co-produced by The New York Times and PBS Frontline."
Seen at the Brooklyn Museum
I'm an aerial dancer. 
Seen in Midtown
I wanted to share something simple but awesome that just happened to me. I woke up this morning with a scratchy throat, so I walked to a nearby juicebar to get a green juice. I asked the owner if he had any kale. Instead of saying no, he said: Please, take a seat, I will run and buy some for you.

I'm making a present for Mama."
What is it?"
I'm going to cut her name out of cardboard. Then I'm going to make a self-portrait of myself!"
The Little Prince
This particular type of mustache is known as The Sari Dropper.
She asked me if I knew about real estate. When I said a little,"  she grabbed her crotch and said:
Is this a lot?"
Travel when you're young. Even if you have to borrow money to do it."
Seen in Williamsburg
He'll give you something to Yelp about.
Seen in SoHo
Sales aren't so great this year, so I decided to see what would happen if I took one large painting each day and walked around the city with it."
Seen on 10th Street
When I was younger, I spent a lot of time wanting to be like "this guy' or 'that guy.' Then at a certain age I realized that I'm probably going to stay me, and I should learn to be OK with that.'"
The Humans of New York Community"  received a proclamation yesterday at City Hall for its outstanding support of the Bedford-Stuyvesant YMCA and of all of New York City."  And the proclamation didn't even mention the timeless  that we bequeathed upon our fair city.
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?
Watch your ass.
Seen at City Hall
It's a landscape archtitect's job to pay attention to the things nobody else notices: the placement of benches, the way a rail curves around a tree, everything"
Why are those things important if nobody notices?"
Because there's an intrinsic feeling to being in balance. 
He didn't speak English, but his son described him as "extremely chillaxed.'

The wasted wealth in this city is unbelievable. You have people living on the streets, while other people renovate multi-million dollar townhouses that they only live in for a few weeks out of the year."
So what do you want in life?"
A farm in Ireland, a place in New York, and a house in Alabama with a big front porch."
Isn't that what you were just criticizing?"
I said it was wrong! I didn't say I wasn't envious!"
He loves his friends at the daycare. He literally drags me there every morning, then when it's time to go home, he does this."
I've been on a mission all day. It ended with this coat."
Don't look to other people for validation. Your birth was your validation."
I'm trying to decide whether I should be a police officer or a security guard."
Guess which one spotted me.
My nickname is Black Jesus."
I found my mom's meth stash when I was four."
What'd you do with it?"
I ate it."
The mainstream media just disseminates information provided by the government. There needs to be more investigative journalism."
I didn't marry the woman I should have married."
What happened?"
We got in a big fight. Then the war came."
I'm afraid my band is getting too "poppy.' 
It's not a costume. It's a lifestyle."
If the photo's a bit out of focus, it's because a cop was honking behind me.
Where do you want to be in ten years?"
I don't think about that shit."
My girlfriend's blind in one eye too, so together we're 20/20."
Part of the HONY/Vogue.com Punk Collection:
I teach music."
Tell me something about music that also applies to life."
It's good to vary your tempo."
Seen on 14th Street
You ever try a Vitamin B shot? That'll get you high!"
Thanks to Boston for a warm welcome and great week in spite of trying circumstances.
This man sat next to me on a bus to Cambridge and immediately began a long, winding, ridiculous monologue that chronicled his world travels and ended up in a description of his Gypsy origins:
I'm a quarter Gypsy,"  he said. Sicilian Gypsy. That's hardcore Gypsy. We're witch Gypsiesare you laughing at me???"
Yes."
Why?"
Because you just sat next to me and started saying ridiculous things."
Oh, I'm sorry, I just ate a bunch of THC pills I got at the hospital."
How did you get the hospital to give you THC pills?"
I have AIDS."
What was your greatest moment of baseball glory?"
Probably the first time I got walked."

(Boston, MA)
People suck."
Why's that?"
Oh, c'mon you know what I mean.  You know somebody for years, you think you've got them figured out, then BAMMO! People suck."
I love that she always helps to keep me optimistic. Even during exam time."
I had to quit music when I had kids because I spent all my time on them."
Do you regret it?"
Absolutely not, because when I picked up the guitar again, the music came out different."
I'm studying to be a maintenance man, and I'm power washing at night. But I was an Assistant Coordinator at Tufts Medical for 11 years." What happened with that?" My drinking caught up with me." Can I write that?" No shame. I'm in a halfway house now. 
(Boston, MA)
What's the most fun you've ever had together?" Probably that time we swam to the Navy Yard." When was that?" I don't know. Sometime in the 1940's."

After the photo, I asked if they had any grandchildren. The one in the pink said: I'm still an unclaimed treasure."
(Boston, MA)
What's your greatest struggle?"
I have two kids and I'm an immigrant. It's all a struggle."

(Cambridge, MA)
He wanted to fight the baddies."
Seen on Charles Street

(Boston, MA)
Seen in Boston Common
I've got terminal cancer. They wanted to do surgery but I don't have much time and that would put me in a wheelchair. Yesterday, I helped a kid learn to ride a bike. That's something, right? That's a slice of life. Couldn't do that in a wheelchair."
(Boston, MA)
This horse is broken. 
(Boston, MA)
It was a much easier decision to join the order when I was growing up. Everyone supported the church and supported your decision. It's a much tougher choice to make today. 
(Boston, MA)
The Lookout

(Boston, MA)
99% of the time, when I ask someone to tell me their favorite thing about their daughter/father/spouse, they give their answer to me. This man looked his son in the eye and said: I love that you are so honest. 
(Boston, MA)
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Keep your hands to yourself. 
(Boston, MA)
Found this young man leaning against a tree in Boston Commons, writing in a notebook: It's sort of hip hop, sort of poetry,"  he said.
I asked him if I could photograph a page.



I pray for peace, I search for love,I hope you hear me out cuz no one ever does;we gotta stick together all we got is us;we can't stop the negative unless wespread the peace and love;
Step outside of self, step into the world; noticehow everything we do affects the future boys and girls;hate crimes happen every damn day;got my momz scared my sister can't go out to play,because her fear is that some psycho feels like snatching kids todayall these damn police but people still ain't feeling safe;
Why does it take a tragedy to bring peopletogether; we know its bound to happen,we should try to stay that way forever;now this is not to say I'm better;but at a young age I learned that birds fly together;it's a survival tactic and I suggest we use itlet's come together, as we spread the peaceand love music



In the upper right corner, are the names of the first two victims of the bombing. I wrote them first for inspiration,"  he said.

Took this photo yesterday. Got to think he's up in Watertown helping finish the job right now. 
(Boston, MA)
Working hard to bring you all the hardest hitting stories
People need to slow down more.
Do you wish you could slow down more?
Yes.
What’s keeping you?
The pace of what’s expected of me.

(Boston, MA)
He's good at telling lies to his mother."

(Boston, MA)
My husband died a month ago. I sometimes wish that I'd focused less on the fact that he was dying, and more on the fact that he was still alive."

(Boston, MA)
I'm better with questions than answers."

(Boston, MA)
Seen in Harvard Yard
Where'd you grow up?"
We're growing up right now."

(Cambridge, MA)
One thing I love about computers is that they can't be a Democrat or Republican."

(Seen at Harvard)
If you could be one age forever, what would it be?"
Thirty or forty. Old enough to know who you are, but young enough that you still have plenty of mountains to climb."
(Cambridge, MA)
She had a rat on her shoulder, a passport in her pocket, and Love Is Why I'm Still Here"  tattooed backwards on her chest.
(Cambridge, MA)
It's a tradition for tourists to touch the foot of John Harvard's statue for good luck. A lesser known tradition is that Harvard students are supposed to pee on that foot before they graduate."
(Cambridge, MA)
I'm trying to stay on the Straight And Narrow, but I keep getting caught up in the Booga Wooga."
What's the Booga Wooga?"
Everything that's not the Straight And Narrow."
(Cambridge, MA)
It's easy to get caught up in the competition. Whenever I do, I try to step back, play some guitar, and remember that it was my lifelong dream just to be here. 
(Seen at Harvard)
How exciting!"
(Boston, MA)
I just farted!"
(Boston, MA)
We're in charge of the memorial. 

(Boston, MA)
He was training to be a surgeon when we got married. One night he came home from two days straight on the job, and I'd cooked him dinner. Right before he fell asleep in his plate of food, he asked me what movie I'd like to watch. I thought it was so sweet. 
(Boston, MA)
Can't decide what's more notable:

1) She said she tried to steal a train when she was 20.

2) She struck a Captain Pose with zero prompting.


(Boston, MA)
Seen in Boston
He thinks he can beat The Old Man."
(Boston, MA)
What's forever?"
My sisters."
Night Out
If everyone in the room believes the same thing, I get worried."
Sorry to bother you but I was wondering how do you decide who to put on your blog?"
She died 30 years ago in a tragic car accident."
Have you stayed single since then?"
Never married again, but never single. I don't like to be alone."
I took a standing portrait of her, and as we were saying goodbye, she oh-so-casually mentioned that she used to be a contortionist at Coney Island.
Tax Day
3:30 AM
Flame's Still Burnin'
She's compassionate."
Tell me about a time she was compassionate."
He took a couple minutes, then said, haltingly: It's not about a time. She's compassionate toward who I am. Every time."
I just built a Death Star out of legos! 

Seuss-stache
Tied Down
Pick Wisely
When I asked for his photo, he asked for a few bucks to help him get lunch. I thought it was a fair trade. But a few minutes later, he chased me down and begged me to take it back. When I wouldn't, he gave me a huge hug.
You got a girlfriend?"
I had one."
What happened?"
That's personal. 
I don't understand her. And I love that."
I try to focus on my grandkids' problems instead of my own."
One of my highest pleasures is when I make something that people like.

Part of the ongoing Vogue.com curation of punk-themed photos from HONY:
I used to write for Baseball Magazine."
What's one way that life is like baseball?"
Just because you have the best team, doesn't mean you're gonna win."

Frame Worthy
What's the best part about being a grandfather?"
I get to love her so much."
Are you related?"
Well, no."
Friends?"
Well"
Oh! Did you two just meet?"
She's dating my son. It's Meet The Mom Day."
I don't got no struggles, man. I got divorced six years ago. Then one day I looked up my first love on Facebook, and she was still single. Now I'm marrying the girl I lost my virginity to, and hopefully we'll grow old together. 
Spring Fever
When you find a friend, hang on.
Seen in East Village
These two were dominating the northern sidewalk of 14th Street at approximately 5:30 PM.

You don't need to go to India to escape materialism. If you want to escape materialism, quit being materialistic."
I feel that the faster you make money, the more it takes out of you."
Is she:
A) Predicting the end of the world
B) Protesting the closure of libraries
I once wanted to get out of Richmond, Virginia so badly that I tried to hop a train going 25mph, and ended up rolling into a marsh.
HONY got two Webby nominations for Best Culture Blog and Best Use of Photography today! Not only that, we totally got a marquee spot in the press release:


NEW YORK, April 9, 2013 - Tom Hanks, Lena Dunham, Burning Love, Medium, Tumblr, Mashable, Angry Birds Star Wars and Humans of New York are among the pop-culture and Internet superstars nominated for The 17th Annual Webby Awards.


You can vote for HONY here:


If we win, everyone gets to take the Webby home for a night.
If you could give one piece of advice, what would it be?" Be in love." How many times have you been in love?" Once."
And then he walked away. 
Scored an exclusive portrait session today with the internet's latest superstar, following his Good Morning America appearance. His parents were HONY fans and very down-to-earth about the whole thing. We met at Tumblr HQ had a good laugh about the wild and crazy internet.
Seen in Central Park 
He likes turtles.
Saved By The Bell, The Remix
My mom died when I was eighteen. I acted like it didn’t bother me cause I was a punk rock kid. But I think it came back to me later in weird ways."
This photo is part of a month-long collaboration I'm doing with Vogue.com. Vogue's Met Gala has a punk rock theme this year, so they asked me to assemble a collection of punk-themed photos from the HONY archives. I've thrown in a few exclusives, also. Besides requesting no cigarettes"  and nixing a couple of portraits with egregious middle fingers, they were open to all sorts of personalities and let me have free reign with the selections. They were great to work with. We're going to be adding a photo per day until May 6th, so be sure to check back. 
It's a cool collection:
I like your hat."
Take my fucking photo."
Mysterious chalk prodigy makes Sunday appearance at Washington Square Park.
I was in the Royal Canadian Air Force."
Oh, you lived in Canada?"
No, I lived in America. But the interventionists and isolationists kept arguing over whether to help England, and I wasn't going to wait for them to figure it out."
Are you dating or just friends?"
That's a good question, actually."
Seen in the subway.
BREAKING: Brainmunching zombie demon spotted off 5th Avenue, heading south.
Do you mind if I ask what you're writing?"
It's a poem about all kinds of love."
Are you in love now?"
I am. It's only been a few weeks. It's a very happy sort of love."
Is this the first time you've been in love?"
It's the second, actually. My first love died unexpectedly of complications from routine surgery. That was a very tragic sort of love."

Morning in NYC from the International Space Station, courtesy of . Look at the shadow of Manhattan! 
He's gonna be the most popular guy at the rave.
Meet Mohsin Shezad. I left my iPhone in the backseat of Mohsin's cab on Thursday. When he discovered it, he drove back to where he'd dropped me off, and spent several minutes looking for me. When I finally called an hour later, he was all the way across town, but drove 30 minutes to meet me. Then he tried his damnedest to refuse a reward, saying: Please sir, your fare was enough. Please sir, no."

This man has a wonderful and humble soul.

I'm trying to get to California."
If you buy "Alien Foursome On The Beach,' I'll throw in 'BallSackFace' for half-price!"
I was just thinking that it'd been a little while since I'd seen some polished fan art. This timely drawing was sent in by Johanna Trobough from Paris, France. (Compare with previous post.)

Thanks for the smile, Johanna. 
I want to draw cartoons. 
Put me on the internet! Even on The Google!"
I'm trying to get back into porn."
Kapoww!
The best place to find rubber bands is by mailboxes. Not the big blue ones, but the small green ones where people pick up their mail."
What do you want to be when you grow up?"
A gem hunter."
This is a page from a book of photos by a talented young photographer with autism named Akeem Bonaparte. Take a close look. The image and words give a fascinating glimpse into Akeem's mind. 

Akeem was trained by the , which teaches photography to veterans and people with special needs. Such a cool initiative.
What's your favorite thing about your daughter?"
She sasses."
I don't sass!"
She sasses."
If I can figured out how to not stress about being broke, it'll almost be like not being broke."
Seen in Washington Heights
The Head Start
I asked if he had any moves.
Seen in Park Slope

The shoot came to an abrupt end when she spotted someone trying to park in the pastor's spot."
#2 on Amazon and #3 on Barnes and Noble
6 Months before release. Pretty incredible, everyone. Thank you so much for the support tonight.
Here's a rough mock-up of what the HONY book cover is going to look like. The actual HONY book will be a little bigger, and the jacket will come all the way to the edges, but you get the idea. I personally think it looks amazing. Actually teared up a bit when they gave it to me. It felt like I was holding a few years of my life in my hand.The book is coming out in 6 months, on October 15th. But do me a favor if you KNOW you'll be getting one, and can spare $20, go ahead and preorder now. Bookstores order a long time in advance, so if we can demonstrate solid demand in these first few days, it will go a long way in determining the final success of the book.Historically, nationwide booksellers have been a bit skeptical of both photography and city-centric books. I know HONY is different. You know HONY is different. But it would help a ton if we could SHOW that HONY is different by turning in great presale numbers. All the work I've seen so far is really exciting, and I promise that I'm working overtime to make sure it's the best $20 that you'll ever spend. As always, thanks so much for your support, and here it is:Hardcover (I absolutely insisted.) 300+ beautifully designed pages. 400 total images. (320 of my favorites, 80 new)Complete with stories and captionsOnly $20.AMAZON: BARNES AND NOBLE: 
Today in microfashion
I like computers."
Somebody didn't want Mom's help.
Seen in Prospect Park
Swagblast
Don't hate the player. Hate the game.
My initial plan was to photograph the two girls on the sidewalk, but Mama was late for her appointment.
After the photo, the three youngest ones formed a line to give me an unprompted Easter hug.
Happy Easter from Harlem, NYC.
People need to communicate more." How so?" They hide too much. From themselves and from each other." Is there something you're hiding that you wish you weren't?" Probably. And I'll probably keep hiding it."
She decided right away that she wanted her picture taken, but Dad was a bit more skeptical. As I showed Dad the website, she shouted: Are you two still talkin'?!?"
After I took her photo, she stuck her cheek out for a kiss. After I gave her one, she said: Isn't love great?" Yes it is,"  I replied. Then she leaned in and said:But sex is better."
Today in microfashionistas
I discovered a man standing off to the side of a Good Friday procession in Washington Heights. He was cradling a framed photograph. My grandfather loved to watch this,"  he said. I'm here in his honor."
Seen in Washington Heights
The best part of my day is when I come home."
Seen in Washington Square Park
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?"
Shut up. 
The sleeves are a little long because that coat used to belong to a magical wizard giant.
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" Stay single."
We were just at the playground and my daughter tried to get on the tire swing with another child, but the mother shooed her away. So I was just explaining to her that she shouldn't spend energy on people who don't want to accept her, because some people are just dicks. Whoops, sorry baby, Mama just cursed."
What's your favorite thing about your sister?"
She likes to dance."
Seen on 14th Street
What's the secret to happiness?"
Don't drink, don't smoke. God bless America!"
What's your favorite thing about your brother?"
Well well well the WORST thing is when we argue!"
Seen on the Lower East Side
Right after she learned to walk, she started strutting."
I spin fire."
MMMBop
Spring Cleaning
We're trying to get a TV show."
I do yoga to get energy from the air."
-
Shoutout to the supremely talented  for never complaining when I use his sand paintings as portrait backdrops.
What do you miss most about Puerto Rico?"
My mother."

Are you travelling?"
I'm coming in for a landing."
You've got to learn to approach everything with a happy mindset even the things you don't want to do."
That sounds difficult. How do you do that?"
Well, I was almost crushed by a wall of mud while working on a construction site. So that helped to change my viewpoint a bit. 
He told me this long, winding, convoluted story of his life, involving three women, six jobs, four cities, and two Siamese cats that seemed to be with him the entire time. After about ten minutes, he sensed that I was losing interest, so he said: I'm gonna summarize: I left New York at the age of 26 with $700 in my pocket. I came back ten years later with $800 in my pocket."
Seen in Washington Square Park
I've collected 6,000 anonymous stories from strangers in 30 different cities."  *

*Just to be clear this is a portrait of someone else's project, and is not affiliated with HONY. However, the guy's name was also Brandon, and he was a really nice dude.
Remember your plan."
When I was a teenager growing up in Detroit, I used to hang out with a bunch of jazz musicians. At the time, "Bu' was a common street name for heroin. One night when we were all hanging out, one of the guys said he was 'going out for a poke.' Another guy said: 'Why don't you just go talk to Betty? You can't get any higher than that.' And ever since then, I've been called Betty Bu."
The Secret
Every king needs a crown.
What do you miss most about Ghana?"
The weather and my children."
At the age of thirty, I lost someone very important to me. The entire edifice of my life crumbled. So I started to question every decision I'd ever made to see what had been the result of personal conviction, and what was the result of societal pressure. Everything went on the chopping block even the fact that during dinner, I always ate my meat last."
Seen in the subway.
The End Is At Hand
The new gentry is corporate-oriented instead of social-oriented. New York is a cultural mecca of the world, and they're cracking down on venues for playing music too loud."
This is my medicine hand. It protects me from bad things. One time a pit bull was trying to bite me, so I shoved it in his mouth.
Bottlecaps, crystals, and feathers."
I come here a lot to read. My mom thinks I'm an Emo Kid."
Seen in East Village
A drunk girl fell on my leg."
Seen in East Village
I don't want to be rich. But I would like to fuck my wife in my own bed."
Right after I took this photo, she beat the crap out of me then drove off.
I just picked up a Hendrix CD, now I'm heading back to Brooklyn."
Oh yeah? What do you do in Brooklyn?"
I'm just crashing at a friend's place right now. I just moved to New York from The Catskills."
Oh cool, what did you do in The Catskills? 
"  I was just crashing at a friend's place.
Do you mind if I take your photo?"
Can I have a kiss?"
The Gold Painted Man
Seen on the subway. 
Found this on the front page of Reddit.
Hide your wives.
If you could give one piece of advice, what would it be?"
Stay curious."
You gonna pay me? Cause fame ain't nothin' without money."
Captain America seen test-driving new intergalactic moped while wearing invisible pants.
He's worn it everyday since Halloween. 
Seen in East Village 
The only rules of the club are: you've got to be over 50, you've got to wear red, and you've got to like having fun."
It's important not to rush through life so much that you don't find time to do the things you really should be doing."
What things do you wish you'd made more time to do?"
I wish I'd learned to drive a racecar. Learned to cook. Followed up with a certain young lady. I wish I'd read more. I've got this stack of books I'm going through now, but I should have read them 50 years ago. I'm even reading Harry Potter!"
Seen in Midtown
Seen on 79th Street
Seen at the St. Patrick's Day Parade
Seen at the St. Patrick's Day Parade
I had a shaved head for awhile, because I wanted to see what it would feel like to be a boy. Now I'm trying to be a girl."
What was the happiest moment of your life?"
When I woke up this morning."
Seen in the subway. 
I never did any sports in college or high school, and now that I'm thirty, I'm really feeling the need to exert myself physically."
I came from a small town where I knew a lot of people. And now I'm here in this huge city. And don't get me wrong, I enjoy the privacy, but sometimes I wish I had more of a presence. 
It's so important to stay true to yourselfdespite the pressures your friends, family, or employer."
If you'd known that earlier, what would you have done differently?"
I wouldn't have been a stay-at-home mom. Because now I'm finding it so hard to re-establish myself in my field."
And that was the morning Julius swore off drinking forever. 
It used to be hard work to call yourself an artist. You had to have a body of work. You had to learn to set up shows, fill a room, and work a crowd that didn't know your name. Now everyone with a beatbox and two songs is calling themselves an artist. I almost don't like to use the term anymore. 
I'm setting up a micro-finance organization to help women in Malawi get interest free loans." How old are you?" Eighteen." I found her FB page:  I encourage you to scroll back through the last year of posts. This young woman has moved far past the realm of ideas.
Dad was in a meeting downtown, but I think we can safely assume he was looking awesome.
I've got two months to find a job. Cause I can't go back to fookin' Ireland."
They didn't know each other, but I thought they should.
Thanks to all the LaGuardia kids who came out for the pop-up speech today. So nice meeting all of you. Real hero of the day was Sue Bick, the Director of Security for Lincoln Center. (You can see her making her way down the stairs on the far right side of the photo.) She pushed her way to the front of the crowd and said: YOU NEED A PERMIT FOR THIS! But we appreciate what you're doing, so just never do it again. 
We love you, Sue. 
Seen in The Metropolitan Museum of Art
I asked the girl on the right to tell me her favorite thing about her mom. She took a step back, started theatrically stroking her chin, and began to look her mom up and down. It seemed as if she was about to remark on a physical trait.

She takes time to listen to our thoughts,"  she said.
LaGuardia Highschool Students: I'm going to give a pop-up talk on the north stairs of Lincoln Center Plaza tomorrow at 4:30 PM. It will last about 30 minutes. General working title is: Shit I Wish People Had Told Me When I Was A Teenager. 
This will include thoughts on how social media has transformed both the opportunities and challenges of being an artist. I'm not a believer in the One True Path, but I'll tell you what worked for me.
I just saw the worst movie. It was called Jack And The Something Slayer. If I can stop one child from seeing that vile thing, I'll be happy."
If you want a completely unique style, you've got to make your own clothes.
Seen in Union Square
My family fled Montenegro when I was one."
Believe in Jesus Christ!"
They're great guys. All three of them."
She'd roll twenty yards ahead, stop, turn around, and wait for Grandma.
What's the toughest thing you've ever survived?"
Probably cancer."
Seen in Midtown
Back in 1978, she came knocking on my door to yell at me for using up three machines in the laundry room. We've been friends ever since."
Our grandson in California is doing a school project, and because we're his favorite grandparents, we're taking Flat Stanley to famous spots in New York City."
The photo will go up on my website tomorrow." Woman: Oh, wonderful!" Man: Oh Jesus."
Just passed these two on 47th Street. Dad says the little guy marched all the way from the Brooklyn Bridge, so I thought he'd earned a signal boost.
Sure it feels good to be housed up, but after awhile, the walls start to close in on me."
Seen in Central Park
Seen in Brownsville, Brooklyn
I found this man in a bodega in Brownsville, Brooklyn. He didn't speak much English, so I asked his friends about him. He owns the whole block,"  they told me, but he just hangs out here everyday. He lives a simple life. He drinks a little bit, eats a little bit, get a little pussy."  I started laughing. We're serious,"  they said. All the time."
Today I had the honor of speaking at the UNIS conference at the UN. After I was finished, three students recited original poems from the stage. One of them really blew me away:
Fluorescent Adolescence
Overqualified yet underachievingIt's singing delightfully off key to the radioYet pitch perfect in the showerIt's spending a half hour in the morningPerfecting your messy bunIt's gelling bedheadIt's lifting weights yet covering yourself up in turtlenecksIt's being a closet philosopher but blaming lackluster grades on not trying?" It's tumbling, sharing, instagrammingThe perpetual pursuit of cool but aloof,hard to get,wit,sarcasm,invincibility.
It's the cycle of hurtingFixinglovinghatingwantinglying and then telling the truth.It sucks.But perhaps when we're oldera new set of problems will cause us to miss those of adolescence.So I guess we should learn to love the pain,Since it's pain that allows us to live and love radically,feel monumentally,and smell the coffee or watch the stars, or hear the musicthat we might later pass by in the rush of the real world.
For now we are poetsAnd activistsAstronautsBloggersWritersPhotographersTeachersEngineers and InventorsFor now, we are what we want to be.Some say the grass is greener on the other side but I'd disagree:I say our grass fluorescent. 
Do what you want. Don't listen to anyone else. Just do what you want."
Seen on Broadway
In ten years? I want to have a maintenance job and a two bedroom apartment. Be drug free, alcohol free, and physically fit."
Seen in Washington Square Park
Everyone is trying to sabotage me."
Seen in Greenwich Village 
I did a little bit of everything. Was never great at anything but I survived."
Seen in Washington Square Park
Do you mind if I take your photo?
"
I run a website called"
Don't give me that shit line. Just take the picture."
We ordered her those pants, and as soon as they arrived, she cut off the bottoms and made a pair of gloves. 
He told me he was on his way to a labor law class, so I asked him if he was studying to be a lawyer. He said:
No, I'm an electrician, actually. I just want to have as much knowledge as possible so that I can give good advice to my family and community. I didn't really have access to much good advice when I was growing up. People think that kids become drug dealers and gang members because of rap, or movies, or video games. But it's actually because of bad advice. They see criminals with money and nice things, and those are their examples of success. So they look to them for advice."
Seen in SoHo
Best photobomb ever.
I work at the UN. I study happiness, actually."
So what's happiness then?"
Well it's very strongly related to income, but only to a certain amount. After about $20,000 a year, it becomes much more dependent on the amount of time we spend with family and friends. This is something we seem to intuitively know at the beginning and end of our lives but lose sight of in the middle. 
I live with a bunch of senior citizens. All they do is play cards and bingo. That doesn't sit too well with me."
Our fundraiser is on the cover of Metro this morning:

"Thanks to the thousands of people who thought kids deserved the chance to be kids,' said YMCA Executive Director Dordy Jourdain."
Early Spring
Seen in East Village
So what’s your favorite thing about your sister?
I get to tell everyone what an awesome older sister I have.
And what about you?
She’s really freaking weird.
She's my wife."
Seen in the Subway
My name is Brandon Stanton and I'm a photographer in New York City. As many of you already know, several months ago I was approached by the fashion label DKNY, who offered me $15,000 to purchase 300 of my photographs. I politely refused the offer. But earlier this week, one of my fans discovered that DKNY was using my photographs anyway in Asia. (Full Story:) As atonement for this infringement, I publicly requested that DKNY donate $100,000 in my name to the YMCA in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, so that underprivileged children could attend summer camp. DKNY responded on Monday with a $25,000 donation.Over the next three days, my audience stepped in and raised the full $100,000 themselves. Over 3,000 people chipped in, and raised an astonishing $103,710 in 72 hours. ()I have no interest in vilifying DKNY. It is a company composed of thousands of good people. The founder, Donna Karan, is highly respected around the world for both her creativity and philanthropy. But I would appreciate if you would REBLOG this post, and lend your voice to my request that  raise their donation to match the $103,710 that we raised. Together, we could create a $208,000 investment in the lives of children in one of New York's most vital and diverse neighborhoods. Thank you so much.
Seen on Broadway
As she was walking away, she turned around and said: Remember, cowgirls are everywhere."
We passed our goal last night! We're at $77,000 with 17 hours left. You think we can raise the full $100,000? I think that'd make a beautiful statement about the openhandedness of individual citizens not to mention bringing some much needed levity to the lives of hundreds of deserving kids.

Every Bit Helps:

All you need is love. 
Want to hear a great Ringo Starr story?"
Absolutely."
Once I was walking into the Staples Center, and I look next to me and Ringo Starr is walking right beside me. I'd been working on a project with his son, so to make conversation, I said: "I've really been enjoying getting to know your son.' I said it very casually, but he got very reflective and said: 'Maybe it's time I got to know him too.'"
If people don't start paying closer attention, we're going to be living in a corporate fascist state in no time. We're paying $3.50 for a cup of coffee. You know how much a POUND of coffee beans costs? $3.50. But nobody knows that. Cause nobody's paying attention."
Seen on 13th Street 
:)
Full article:
If this guy doesn't make you smile, I can't help you. 
Seen in Harlem
These four were playing a game of Telephone. I'm not sure how this secret started, but when it got to the end, it was: Your mom has a nice butt! 
I am a street photographer in New York City. Several months ago, I was approached by a representative of  who asked to purchase 300 of my photos to hang in their store windows around the world. They offered me $15,000. A friend in the industry told me that $50 per photo was not nearly enough to receive from a company with hundreds of millions of dollars of revenue. So I asked for more money. They said no.
Today, a fan sent me a photo from a DKNY store in Bangkok. The window is full of my photos. These photos were used without my knowledge, and without compensation.I don’t want any money. But please REBLOG this post if you think that DKNY should donate $100,000 on my behalf to the YMCA in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. That donation would sure help a lot of deserving kids go to summer camp. I’ll let you guys know if it happens.

UPDATE: DKNY posted , via facebook:








Since its founding in 1989, DKNY has been inspired by and incorporated authentic New York into its imagery. For our Spring 2013 store window visuals we decided to celebrate the city that is in our name by showcasing Only in NYC"  images. We have immense respect for Brandon Stanton aka Humans of New York and approached him to work with us on this visual program. He declined to participate in the project. 
For the Spring 2013 windows program, we licensed and paid for photos from established photography service providers. However, it appears that inadvertently the store in Bangkok used an internal mock up containing some of Mr. Stanton's images that was intended to merely show the direction of the spring visual program. We apologize for this error and are working to ensure that only the approved artwork is used. 
DKNY has always supported the arts and we deeply regret this mistake. Accordingly, we are making a charitable donation of $25,000 to the YMCA in Bedford-Stuyvesant Brooklyn in Mr. Stanton's name.











$25k will help a lot of kids at the YMCA. I know a lot of you would like to have seen the full $100k, but we are going to take them at their word that it was a mistake, and be happy that this one had a happy ending. Thanks so much for your support, everyone.
Seen in Crown Heights, Brooklyn.
I'm from Russia."
What do you do in Russia?"
Well I live in China now. I have my own export business."
How old are you?"
26."
Seen in Crown Heights, Brooklyn
I'm a professional matchmaker."
So what's the most important thing in a good relationship?"
It's important to stay present, and to always remain curious about how your partner may have changed. That way you avoid holding your partner to old standards and judgments."
Seen in Columbus Circle
When my husband was dying, I said: ‘Moe, how am I supposed to live without you?’ He told me: ‘Take the love you have for me and spread it around.’
What's your story?"
No story."
I've got time to figure it out."
I'm homeless, and I'm an alcoholic. But I have a dream."
What's that?"
I wanna go fishing."

Seen in Greenwich Village
Seen in Grand Central
She told me her name was Edge-E-Sledgehammer,"  then she started laying down some spoken word poetry.
Is this stuff on the internet?"  I asked.
Nah,"  she said, I'm completely underground."
First sighting of Ms. Colombia this year. 
That means Spring is right around the corner! 
I drive the truck."
Seen in Chelsea
Where do you want to be in ten years?"
I just want to be happy."
Well, are you happy now?"
happy-ish."
I want to play in the NFL."
What's your second choice?"
Archaeologist."
The yellow button on his coat said:
I've survived pretty much everything."
Seen at Lincoln Center. 
I published a book today."
Oh yeah? What about?"
It's a poetic, manic account of how to love a woman."
I was transporting  across town, when this man walked up and started admiring her. It quickly became apparent that he really, really loved dogs. I've trained them all my life,"  he explained. Soon he was getting emotional. All you do is feed them,"  he said, and they love you so much for it. I still cry for my first dog. She would not eat unless I was eating. I once had a fever for three weeks, and she would not eat because I couldn't eat."  He started to tear up a bit. She ended up getting stolen,"  he said. When you lose a dog, it's just as bad as losing a human. They may be less intelligent but the emotional connection is the same."
Seen in Chelsea
These two were walking down opposite sides of the sidewalk. When I asked for their photo, they came together, smiled sweetly, then continued on their way without saying a word.
Seen in Harlem
Like the prophecy says if you have love and goodness in your heart, you must share it."
The Throne
I'm in the middle of a spiritual process. I can't wear color for another six months."
Seen at Lincoln Center
Seen on the Upper West Side
Want to say a big thank you to Valentine, Tumblr's Fashion Evangelist, for guiding me through NYFW.  He crammed my week with events and got me into all sorts of shows and secret areas plus his mind is a rolodex of everyone in the industry.  Couldn't ask for a better guide to the fashion world.  
Follow his Tumblr here: 
Collaborated with Vogue.com this year for Fashion Week, and gave them 12 exclusive shots of some of the beautiful things I saw. Really proud of the collection. SEE THEM HERE:
Got to hang out with the second group of fundraiser winners at Tumblr HQ on Wednesday. Again, an extremely intelligent group of young people. Not only did David extend the tour an extra hour, but to set a good example, the staff of Tumblr confined their after-work Happy Hour"  to a single conference room. It was a humorous sight to see 40 people with dixie cups packed into a single meeting room, while 15 young adults roamed around the office.

Thanks Tumblr!
The Black Swan
Ironically spent the entire Calvin Klein show trying to get a sweet pic of Bill Cunningham. He's been photographing for decades, yet still giggles with delight when he snaps a good shot. What a great soul.
Seen on the subway.
Seen at Milk Studios
Seen in the subway.
He kept shouting It's Happy Hour!"  Over and over. 
Everybody's blogging these days.
Met up with the winning teams from the Hurricane Sandy Fundraiser yesterday. These kids raised around ten thousand dollars between them. Such a genuine, intelligent, good-spirited group of young adults. David Karp spoke to them for about an hour, then gave us all a personal tour of Tumblr HQ. It was a great evening for everyone. Looking forward to meeting the second group today.
Found this complete original at Milk Studios. He looks like a permanent installation, but he was just passing through.
He told me the wings in his hair were a gift from Alexander McQueen. Two minutes later, he told someone else that they were a gift from Karl Lagerfeld. When I asked for his photo, he said: Not without my wife. We just got married in Dubai. 
It's not just about looks. He's got to have magnetism and charisma."
I'm hanging it in my son's room."
How old is he?"
He hasn't been born yet."
There's a naked guy in the next car!"  *

*Confirmed
Seen at the Westminster Dog Show
Do these dogs know they're competing?"
I once had a dog that won Best in Show. He got so excited that he went into a trance and his eyes rolled into the back of his head."
Fashion Week ended early cause this guy just won.
When I had long hair, people seemed pretty sure they knew what I was about as soon as they met me. I sort of enjoy the uncertainty now."
Legit mountain man discovered in Chinatown. 
Fashion Week receives a visit fromColonel Starcrust of Maritime Colony Q on Planet Zuzu.
Seen in Chinatown
Seen at Lincoln Center
Diane von Fürstenberg with husband Barry Diller, backstage after her show today.   
Even the cat thinks this lady likes cats a little too much.
Seen in Chinatown 
Seen in Chinatown
A futuristic hobbit Hendrix entertains straphangers at 14th street.
He tried to give me the old I'm bringing it to the grandkids"  excuse.
Seen in Central Park
Seen in Midtown
The snow had barely finished falling on 5th Avenue when vandals moved in with their vicious profanity.
This is a character."  Oh, so this isn't you?"  It's not me. But there's a lot of me in here."
Tommy Hilfiger, a few minutes before his menswear show yesterday.
Seen in Midtown
Times Square Blizzocaplypse
Do I look that bad?"
Joe Flacco, dressing like a [Superbowl] champ.
Blizzardproof
Is this for Fashion Week?"  Nah, I just got out of jail. I've been wearing this shit for two weeks."
The Queen is not pleased.
Heads will roll.
Seen in Chelsea
My goal is to be the Creative Director of a fashion magazine. Basically, I want to be Grace Coddington's Mini-Me."
I started a skipping club, and today is our first meeting!"
I love his eyes and his belly."
Wendell is admittedly a little unhinged, and he's been arrested a few times for harassing tourists who take his photo without paying. But I've got a real soft spot for him. He's one of the most photogenic people in the city, but also one of the most difficult to photograph. I've probably taken 100 shots of him, but none of them are particularly well composed. He doesn't sit still and he doesn't take suggestions. You can only take a portrait of Wendell on his terms, because he always has a very strong artistic vision. In this photo he chose to pose with a van in the middle of the street. He kept rapping his cane on the word homeless."  I'm sure the driver was terrified.
I used to be a poet. I made a switch to art, but I wanted to keep working with books. So now I make sculptures out of them."
What was the happiest moment of your life?"
When I discovered that I loved theater, because that set up everything else."
I asked her a few questions, but she completely clammed up. No matter what I said, she just smiled shyly and stared at the ground. After a couple minutes of this, I turned to her friend, and asked Can you tell me something about your friend?"   Yeah,"  she replied. She's really loud."
Artist?"
Psychoanalyst."
Big speech today. Pretty nervous.
Seen in East Village
I never had any family growing up. But I still went to school everyday. One day, when I was in eleventh grade, my English teacher came up to me and said: If you graduate, I'll adopt you. I'll show you the life. You'll do things you never dreamed of."  And he kept his promise. He made it legal and everything. On the day I graduated, he was the only family I had there. My father's taken me everywhere since then. I've done all kinds of things.
Seen on 6th Avenue
We run a yoga studio for couples."
Sometimes I start laughing for no reason, then I can't stop. 
Watching the trains come in.
This is not exactly a time of my life that I'd most like to have documented, but fuck it. Go ahead."
I had heart surgery in October. Today I'm going to try to get on the train for the first time. Hope I don't get knocked over!"
Have you guys seen these portraits by francoisbrunelle.com? Unbelievable! These are portraits of people who have no biological relation, yet look like twins. Not only are they fun to look through, they are quite thought provoking. Think of the billions of coin flips that go into the creation of a human face
Check Them Out:
What are the flowers for!?!?"
. a vase."
I've been photographed in the same dress as Kim Kardashian. I wore it better, though. She was too short for it."

Her:
Kim:
We qualified for the World Cup this year. 
I got it for Hanukkah."
BREAKING: Carnivorous Snow Yetti spotted in Central Park
Seen in Washington Heights.
Seen on the Upper East Side.
1.7 million people on this island, but you can still get away.
Seen at the Central Park Boat Pond.
Some serious hardware spotted on Broadway.
A young artist's depiction of Grand Central this afternoon. I can't help thinking that it's a pretty remarkable depiction of what Grand Central looks like at 2 AM.
I normally don't take photos inside the grocery store, but look what I just found in the cereal aisle. 
BREAKING: Sherlock Holmes spotted in the lobby of The Met yesterday, no doubt uncovering some red hot clues.
Seen on Broadway.
Mixed and Matched
I fought for 26 months. Eight countries. Three different units. Six campaigns. One invasion. The French gave me the Legion of Honor. The US gave me the Bronze Star. And the Russians gave me the Order of the Great Patriotic War."
He was blasting John Denver, maximum volume.
When I asked for his photo, he searched through his bag for his glasses. He ended up finding them. On his face.
What's your favorite thing about your son?"
He's uninhibited."
I think MLK was so effective because he balanced idealism with pragmatism. He captured the public's imagination with lofty aims, yet focused his energy on small changes. I think it's beautiful that our most celebrated social activist began by targeting the policy of a single city's bus system. He changed the world by focusing on the problems in front of his face. 

On this MLK Day, let's remember to think big. 
And keep our feet on the ground.
I've been married 50 years. If I was to give one piece of advice to young couples, it'd be this: Never lose your temper at the same time. If somebody's really mad, the other one better make a retreat."
Thanks to HuffPo for prominently sharing the HONY Iran portraits today. Of course I'm biased, but I like to think they are a special collection of photos, and it's nice to see them shared beyond the HONY audience:
The Dance Lesson 
What's your favorite thing about New York?"
The women."
What's your favorite thing about your dad?"
He lets me beat him up and doesn't cry."
I was never much of a video game player, but when she passed by, my Spidey Sense told me to do a Google image search for Zelda."
I can't find my shoe."
Three weeks."
He's so dramatic. When he finds a cool video on the internet, he bursts into my room and starts twirling around."
Seen in SoHo.
Was sifting through the HONY portrait recommendations to see if I could find any night shifters"  to track down tonight, and I came across this touching tribute:
Dear HONY,
I would tell you where Mary Downing worked, but she is no longer with us. Mary lived in Brooklyn and was the most caring person I've ever met. She taught English in New Jersey and was insanely influential- she was kind, an amazing writer and teacher, she legitimately cared about her students, and she never spoke out of anger, but was always firm; she was one of the strongest people I knew, and she was always sincere.
When she was diagnosed with Cancer, she didn't stop teaching. She kept going to NJ every day and when the commute became too much because of her Chemo, she started teaching in Brooklyn again. Unfortunately, she had a relapse and passed away earlier in 2012.
This submission isn't about telling a sad story- it's so that people can see that even after going through something so strenuous, Mary continued to do what she loved- she wrote, she taught and she lived. Thank you.
Sincerely,Noah Dunton
Seen on the Williamsburg Bridge.
Making It Look Easy
He got me through a tough time."
We got them at Toys R Us. Then we slapped a new motor, some vinyl, and some white paint on them. You know to make them look like they didn't come from Toys R Us."
I was on the G-Train heading north through Brooklyn when the train abruptly stopped just before the Hoyt-Schermerhorn station. The conductor shut down the power of the train, and held us there for about 20 minutes. When we finally pulled into the station, a breathless woman entered my car. A woman had a seizure and fell on the tracks!"  she said, excitedly. And a train was coming into the station! Luckily the driver noticed and slammed on the brakes."  She pulled out her phone to show just how close the train had come to hitting the woman. 
Supposedly, after the last few incidents, the MTA has been urging its conductors to be hyperaware when entering stations. Looks like a life was saved today by one conductor who took the warning to heart.
The Extrovert and The Introvert
I was going for a cross between Kelly Osbourne, Adam Lambert, and a dinosaur."
I used to be Kramer's stunt double."
Seen in Union Square.
Seen in Union Square.
I asked his favorite thing about his dad, and he scrunched up his face and looked at the sky. He really seemed to be considering his options. Finally, he said: When he throws me in the air."
Right now I'm focused on making sequined teddy bears."
BREAKING: MTA conductor caught being glamorous.
Seen in Greenwich Village.
These four friends spent their Sunday afternoon volunteering at the Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital.
Seen in Washington Heights.
She eat too much."
Seen on the Subway.
Seen in the Subway.
Seen in Times Square.
Living in New York is a struggle, because you're always trying to make $5 last for three days. But in a way it's romantic, because The City always gives you little ways to make it."
I just came back from Basquiat's grave."
What'd you do there?"
Not much. It was more about getting there."
You guys want to hear something nuts? A few weeks ago, I was holed up in my Tehran hotel room, crippled by a stomach flu, when I decided to turn on the English language version of Iranian state TV. It was, of course, extremely anti-American and anti-British. 
And THIS DUDE was on the channel. He was on one of their news programs, wearing a suit, blasting the evil West."  His tagline said: Political Scientist."  I remember thinking: Where the hell does Iran find Americans willing to go on this channel? 
Turns out the answer was Union Square!
Seen in SoHo.
Congrats to David for becoming the nicest guy ever to grace the cover of Forbes Magazine.  Forbes of course emphasizes his money, but everyone who meets him notices his heart.  The best part of Tumblr is its soul.  
We divided our life into two periods: Before Tango and After Tango. Dancing kept us together. 

Dear HONY,
I wanted to tell you about Alex Tango"  Turney. Alex is 92 years old and one of the most amazing men I've ever met. He stays out til 3 AM dancing on Saturday nights and goes on hot air balloon rides. I started out volunteering as a friendly visitor, but now its been two years since we've met and I try and spend as much time with him as possible. His stories, his philosophy, and the love he still holds for his deceased wife make every moment with him so meaningful.
Florence
Special Ops?"
Arts Administrator. 
These three men were walking through Times Square a couple nights ago. They were coming from an awards ceremony.
We didn't win,"  they said, laughingly. This is a losers' walk. 
Well what were you nominated for?"  I asked. 
They pulled out the program, and showed me their category: Best Overall Governance, Compliance, and Ethics Program for a Large Cap Company."  They'd been nominated for their work with Marriott International. 
Sounds boring,"  they said, but we're proud of our program."
IN OTHER NEWS, I'M PROUD TO PRESENT THE 2013 HONY AWARD FOR BEST OVERALL GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE, AND ETHICS PROGRAM FOR A LARGE CAP COMPANY TO MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL. CONGRATS GUYS! KEEP UP THE GREAT COMPLIANCE!
Just trying to keep the spirit alive."
Of course he can sit. 
I went to the store the other day, and accidentally bought some anti-aging lotion. At first I was upset, but my right hand and my dick have never looked younger."
Seen on the subway. 
Seen in Greenwich Village.
I'm a Doctor of Holistic Medicine."
Any health advice?"
Don't eat meat. It makes your body too acidic, and disease can only thrive in an acidic environment."
Does that include steak? 
I remember all the speculation surrounding this photo last year when I posted it. Wonder who dug it up and made the connection? Wasn't me

The Hand-Me-Down
Found these two running plays on an empty street.
He can't wait for college.
An art therapist from Chile, and her pup.
Seen in Crown Heights.
She picks out her clothes all by herself. 
Seen at the Brooklyn Museum.
Seen in Crown Heights.
Seen in Grand Central.
It's my book of thoughts."
Seen in East Village.
We've been best friends since 1967."
You'll shoot your eye out!
This guy busted me fishing for a kiss pic.
Word from the shelter is that LuLu was adopted immediately after becoming available. No word yet if it was a HONY fan, but given the high level of interest, the shelter assured me they would be very selective when placing her. Who knows maybe some would-be LuLu adopters discovered another soulmate at the shelter.
Seen in Central Park.
He described himself as a Professional Muse,"  which caused me to laugh a bit. But he wasn't smiling: I give people guidance,"  he said, I'm going now to meet my first client of the new year."  I didn't want to ask more questions, because some things are better left a mystery.
The Opportunists
Passed these two sitting in a cafe off 7th Avenue. After I took the photo, my girlfriend said: Now THAT'S a DILF."  Then she paused and said: Well, I mean, I don't think so, but, you know, a lot of women would think so."
His heart's just not in it anymore.
Seen on Houston Street.
I thought she'd gone into crisis management mode because of the weather, so I told her: You've unintentionally got great style right now."
She laughed, then said: Oh, it's very intentional. Just ask my husband."
Seen on Broadway.
Seen in Central Park.
Seen in Central Park.
Seen in Central Park.
I found these two hunched over on Broadway, just like this. It seemed like an interesting moment, so I quickly snapped the photo, then approached them to find out what was so interesting about today's paper. The man seemed sheepish when he answered: My film just got reviewed by the New York Times,"  he said. So I'm just showing my daughter."  His name was Sean Mullin, and his film, Allegiance, opened yesterday.

I left the scene with a self-satisfied grin at having sniffed out a New York moment. :)
That thing probably has more Facebook fans than the rest of us combined.
LuLu is a 2 month old puppy that was abandoned in the lobby of an apartment building yesterday, despite being perfect. An absolute love ball with movie star looks. I dropped her off at the shelter on 326 E 110th Street at 9 AM this morning. Adoptions start at noon.

Shelter Number: 212.788.4000
LuLu's ID #: A0954197

She's a lottery ticket, and won't last long. GO!

*I want to clarify my involvement due to some speculation in the comment section on Facebook. I was IN the lobby of the shelter when someone brought this dog in. I was there to adopt an entirely different dog. I kept this dog long enough to photograph it and post it on HONY. No kidnapping was involved. Sweater and harness supplied for photo shoot.
You want me to hold my boys?"
Interviews tend to get more profound as the temperature drops:
If you could give one piece of advice to a large group of people, what would it be?" No." Excuse me?" No."
It says: I'm sorry 
Seen in Lower Midtown.
Merry Christmas, everyone! Here's a photo from the Hobson home in Nyack, New York. The Hobsons answered our call for volunteers and expanded their table tonight, so three international students had the opportunity to share a Christmas meal. Looks like a wonderful gathering. 

ON TRAVEL TO IRAN:
The US Government has a lengthy travel warning for Iran. While not advising you to ignore this warning, I do advise that you balance it with direct accounts of Americans who have recently visited the country. These accounts are generally filled with superlatives the country is beautiful, the history is rich, and the people are eager to demonstrate their almost-sacred commitment to hospitality. 
Americans are especially loved. This was noted in every travel account that I read, and I can confirm the fact. You will be smiled at, waved at, invited to meals, and asked to deliver personal messages to Jennifer Lopez. American music, movies, and media are thoroughly consumed by the people of Iran. Like all countries, there are many different viewpoints, but the vast majority of people will associate you with a culture they admire and respect. 
I was by no means starry eyed. I'm well aware of Iran's modern history and government, though my portraits pointedly contained no mention of either. Some of the government's policies are unfortunately impossible to ignore: Israelis, for example, are not allowed to enter the country. You cannot even enter the country if you have an Israeli stamp in your passport.* I mention this only because it's well publicized and relavent to travel. I'm avoiding all other critiques, because I am foremost a photographer, and these issues are well-trodden by Western media outlets. 
But I can tell you this: for two weeks I mingled with the culture, people, and scenery of Iran, with almost no interference from the government. (A privilege admittedly denied to Iran's citizenry) I enjoyed the advantages that a tourist receives in any country. Like all countries, Iran has a strong economic interest in insuring its tourists enjoy themselves. Everyone in an official capacity will be very eager that you enjoy your stay. The unfortunate reality is that our two governments have hostile relations, so you will not be allowed to stay in Iranian homes, or go off on your own with Iranian friends. But you will be given extensive freedom to tour the country. 
Because you are an American, you will be assigned a guide. But this will be an unexpected blessing. The guide is trained in tourism, and is by no means a government minder."  Beyond insuring that you adhere to the guidelines mentioned above, their job is to educate you on the history and culture of Iran. Assuming you have no interest in journalism or espionage, the guide will facilitate and expand your experience. In all likelihood, he/she will become your friend. My guide was Mohammad Eslami. If you plan on travelling to Iran, I recommend contacting him: mohammadjavad_82@yahoo.com
You will need a visa. This is most easily achieved through AITO, a tourism agency linked with the Foreign Ministry. In all likelihood it will be approved within 2 weeks. Your visa will need to be retrieved from the Pakistani embassy in Washington DC. (Though I believe you can arrange for it to be shipped.)
Lastly, travel to Iran is extremely cheap right now. It is a darkly beneficial effect of the recent currency devaluation. In very few places can you currently see more, for less. 
I'll close with the common cliche: Iran's government is not its people. You can greatly enjoy a country, while at the same time disagreeing with it's government. Travel is not advocacy of ideology or policy. Travel is travel, and it's the single greatest contributor to understanding between cultures.
*Edited to reflect that Jews can enter the country, given that they've never been to Israel.
There were a lot of uncertainties surrounding my trip to Iran. The US Government advises against all travel to Iran, and especially warns against photography. I travelled to Iran without knowing if I'd be able to achieve anything resembling my work in NYC. 
I knew that a lion's share of my success would hinge on one thing: my guide. Like all Americans, I was assigned a full time guide during my travels through the country. All I knew was that his name was Mohammad, and he was certified by the government to lead Americans. 
Who was this man? And how was he going to respond when I told him: Museums are great, but instead let's walk around all day and ask strangers for their photograph. 
Mohammad was an absolute godsend. He not only allowed my photography, but he believed in it and became a partner in its success. Asking strangers for photographs is an intimidating process. But he never once refused to make an approach. And almost always, he succeeded in securing permission. 
As a result, the collection of photographs that emerged from this trip were a collaborative effort. I provided the eye, Mohammad provided the tongue. Without him, none of these photos would exist, and I am so thankful for his contribution. 
I will be providing his contact info in my next post, regarding general guidelines for travel to Iran.
and the final portrait from Tehran.
The Roof of Tehran

(Tehran, Iran)
The Ghost (Tehran, Iran)
Seen in Tehran, Iran.
Seen in Tehran, Iran.
Career Highlight: I was walking in a blizzard, on a mountaintop several thousand feet above Tehran, when this guy shouts: I love your Facebook page!"
(Tehran, Iran)
A girl's gotta look after herself. 
(Tehran, Iran)
It's been awhile since we've had a puppy-nuzzling-a-sheep-wrapped-in-a-blanket pic. I apologize for the oversight. 
(Tehran, Iran)
No telling how many girlfriends this man has stolen in his day.
This man was driving me across Tehran yesterday, when I learned that he'd lived for 8 years in America incidentally on the same STREET as me in Georgia. 
He first crossed into the United States from Mexico paying $1,500 to be transported across the border. He wanted to go to University and be a dentist, but learned that the idea of America was much more bountiful than the reality. He worked at a factory job for 8 years, without ever being able to get a drivers license. He wasn't able to find a foothold in society. After 9/11, he said things got much tougher for Middle Eastern immigrants. I had a great passion for the American people,"  he said. When 9/11 happened, I had no money, so instead I gave my blood."
Five years ago he spent a night in jail for driving without a license. He decided he was tired of being nervous all the time, and he went all out for a green card. When he was turned down, he returned to Iran. 
His fee for a 45 minute taxi ride across Tehran was only $6. I paid him the rate he'd have received in America, and asked for his photograph. He was the kind of man I most admire. The kind that realizes you get one shot at life, and risks everything to make the best of it. I was sorry it didn't work out for him.
It was my destiny,"  he said. He didn't sound like he believed his own words though.
Are you married?"  I asked.
Yes. I met my wife when I returned to Iran."
Well there you go,"  I said. 
As I prepared to take his photograph, he made one request: Don't photograph me with the taxi,"  he said, it's a low class job. 
It's not a low class job,"  I said. It's the job of people who take huge risks so their children can be lawyers and surgeons."
(Tehran, Iran)
Discovered dinosaur bones in the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Seen in Tehran, Iran.
How is business?" As God wants it to be. 
(Tehran, Iran)
He was driving down a crowded sidewalk, screaming: Ahmadinejad is coming! Get out of my way!"  When I stopped him for a photo, he laid out his daily schedule: I smoke water pipe. Then I go to work. Then I smoke water pipe with apple flavor."
(Tehran, Iran)
The clerics of Iran, for better or worse, are synonymous with the government.  Their party line"  is the mirror image of their Western counterparts: The American people are a good people,"  he says.  We have a problem with the American government."

(Tehran, Iran)
An Iranian Air Force lieutenant takes a stroll with his girl in the
mountains of North Tehran.

(Tehran, Iran)
Common Eye

(Tehran, Iran)
She plans to be an actress.

(Tehran, Iran)
Seen in Tehran, Iran. 
They were selling pieces of advice. Mine said: Don't consult with jealous people. 
(Tehran, Iran)
Her name is Mahsa.  It means Face Like Moon."

(Isfahan, Iran)
A group of self-professed street kids"  demonstrate why football is the world's most popular sport. All you need is a foot and a ball. (Isfahan, Iran)
Seen at the Grand Bazaar, Tehran.
Big Sister
(Isfahan, Iran)
Date Night
(Isfahan, Iran)
I tried to communicate my vision through my guide. I'd say we got about 80% of the way there. But between the beauty of the young women and the garden, I doubt anyone is looking too closely at composition.
(Isfahan, Iran)
This wonderful man crossed in front of us as we were speeding down a mountain road. His clothes, his hair, the lines on his face he seemed to be a perfectly natural extension of the landscape.
(Abyaneh, Iran)
I hesitated the first time she skated by, and missed my chance. So when she passed me twenty minutes later, I thought the Universe was trying to tell me something.
(Isfahan, Iran)
She was selling pressed fruit. I didn't want to take her photo without buying something, so I asked my guide to make a purchase. He spoke with her for awhile, then said: We can't do it. The prices are too high. It's a rip-off."  I took another look at the woman, and the mountainous backdrop, and said: 
Pay her whatever she wants! 

(Abyaneh, Iran)
Construction worker by day. Martial artist by night. Model by birth.
(Isfahan, Iran)
Iran may have the brightest, most colorfully dressed children in the world. 
(Isfahan, Iran)
Seen in Isfahan, Iran.
What does it say?" Follow the rules."
(Seen in Iran)
A Chinese filmmaker congratulates an Iranian cleric who has just finished speaking on the meaning of Happiness, in fluent Mandarin. Boy in [apparent] Italian sweatshirt looks on. Scene captured by an American photographer. How's that for Kumbaya? 
The meaning of happiness is different for everyone. Though the happiness is the same, the paths to that happiness are many. Even within monotheism, even within Islam, there are many different paths. Outside of monotheism, those paths increase exponentially."  (His answer, translated back into Farsi, then into English.) 

(Isfahan, Iran)
The best accessory is a good friend.
(Isfahan, Iran)
Someone told a funny.
(Iran)
America's greatest ambassadors don't wear suits.
(Isfahan, Iran)
I know this is not a chicken blog. But when you snag a sweet chicken pic, you just want to tell the world. 
(Sepidan, Iran)
I seem to have caught her in a moment of contemplation, but she was all smiles.
(Abyaneh, Iran)
I came to photograph people, but the natural beauty of this country is astounding. Today was a climbing drive through craggy mountains, wrapped in fog, and punctuated with pockets of light. Enough to make a man want to lean out the window and scream: Irannnnnnn! 
(Isfahan, Iran)
Seen in Isfahan, Iran.
When I walked up, the dog started barking aggressively. The man calmed the dog with one word. He stopped barking, rolled over on his back, and got a nice belly scratch. It was a touching demonstration of their relationship. I could tell they spend very little time apart.
(Sepidan, Iran)
She was so beautiful, I sat on a stoop for 20 minutes until she finished shopping.
(Sepidan, Iran)
Coloring Inside The Lines
(Shiraz, Iran)
Mahmoud was my driver during my time in Shiraz. Perhaps the most colorful man I've ever met. He speaks English in simple phrases, which always involve his name, such as Mahmoud happy"  or Mahmoud love."  Often he just says Mahmoud,"  then points at me, and places his hands over his heart.
He is the most hospitable man I've ever met. If I needed to cross the street, Mahmoud became a crossing guard. He would not let me open my own car door, or my own bottle of water. At one time or another, it seemed that he offered to give me everything he owned. I once made the mistake of accepting his offer of cologne, then got sprayed eight times.
My fondest memory of Mahmoud was yesterday when we laid down to rest in a garden. Mahmoud had carefully prepared two beds using mats and blankets. I couldn't fall asleep, so I decided to let Mahmoud rest, and went for a short walk by the river. When I looked back, Mahmoud had woken up, folded up both the beds, and was running to accompany me. 
(Shiraz, Iran)
Why hello there, ladies.
(Sepidan, Iran)
Seen in Shiraz, Iran.
After this photo was taken, I joined these guys for a quick game of soccer/football. It took me about two minutes to realize that I was horribly outclassed in both stamina and agility. So I tried kicking the ball as hard as I could toward the goal, and ended up hitting one of the kids in the face. Then to make matters worse, I bribed him to stop crying. In my defense, I did make sure that everyone was smiling again before I left the scene.
To most Westerners, the city of Shiraz means one thing: wine. The grapes of Shiraz produce a wine that is world famous for its taste. Shiraz wine is no longer consumed in Iran, because alcohol is outlawed. Yet on weekend evenings, the residents of Shiraz can be seen with suspiciously large smiles and strangely red cheeks.
I saw these men from the window of a taxi. I asked the driver to pull over, so I could walk back and take their photo. Instead he INSISTED on backing up against a heavy stream of traffic. It was 100 yards of sheer terror. No, please,"  I said. This is perfect."  Not a problem at all, he insisted.
Etched into the walls of Persepolis are hundreds of men, marching in a caravan, bringing tribute to the king. They represent all the nations of the known world. The only woman to be found is on the axle of a wheel. Because if it was removed, the whole damn thing would come apart. 
So much of Iran's history, as well as world history, is encapsulated in this image. These are the 200 year old etchings of British servicemen, carved into the 2500 year old walls of Persepolis the markings of a modern empire on the ruins of an ancient one. The drive to empire is not a disease of individual nations, but a disease of humanity.
Perhaps Iran's greatest jewel is Persepolis, which roughly translates into City of Persians."  Built over 2500 years ago, Persepolis served as the cradle of the Persian Empire. Caravans would come from all over the world to bring tribute to the Persian kings. In 330 BC, Alexander the Great destroyed the palace during his conquest of Persia, in retaliation for the destruction of Athens by Xerxes.
Seen in Marvdasht, Iran
One of the holiest places in Iran is Shahcheragh, a mausoleum housing two descendants of the Prophet Mohammed. It is an awe-inspiring sight for Muslim and non-Muslim alike
I think it is safe to conclude that the concept of personal space"  did not originate in the Middle East. Iranians demonstrate their affection in very physical ways. They hug, they pinch cheeks, they walk hand-in-hand with their friends. Personally, the culture fits my nature. I tend to be an overhugger by Western standards.
The Persians were originally a nomadic people, and these origins are reflected in many aspects of their culture. Today, many nomadic tribes still roam in the Zagros Mountains.
Seen in Shiraz, Iran.
I'd just finished taking a portrait, when I hopped into the back of a taxi and began reviewing my photos. Suddenly a policeman appeared out of nowhere, poked his head into the car, and began screaming at me in Farsi. Oh God,"  I thought. Hopefully Obama will get me out of jail. 
What does he want?"  I asked my guide.
He wants you to take his photo too."
A rather joyous encounter with an Afghan family in the Shiraz Bazaar. 
As I walked by, he motioned for me to come and share his lunch. And all he had was a single plate of rice. 
The Apprentice
Going to a carpet shop in Iran is like going to an art gallery. (In this case, I visited the Iran Carpet House on Dr. Fatemi Street). The first carpet was made 2,500 years ago in Ancient Iran. And the tradition has developed into one of the world's finest arts. The carpets are respectfully referred to as pieces,"  and the finest ones bear the signature of the artist. Some carpets take a single artist several years to weave. The carpets are divided into two main groups: Nomadic and City. The Nomadic carpets are made by mountainous nomadic tribesmen, contain mostly wool, and are woven completely from the imagination of the artist. Therefore, there is no such thing as a mistake in a Nomadic carpet."  City carpets are more expensive, because they contain large amounts of silk, and are painstakingly rendered from preset patterns. The holy grail"  of Persian carpets is the rare nomadic carpet made of silk, not wool. (Ideally imbued with magic flying powers)
She tried to claim that she wasn't photogenic, then she totally Vogued. 
Away From It All
Mother and daughter share a shopping day in North Tehran, Iran.
These men work at Firehouse 64 in north Tehran. When they found out I was from New York, they excitedly asked: Are you a fireman too?"  I've often secretly wished I was a fireman. But never more than at that moment.
Curves are everywhere in Eastern culture: our writing, our architecture, our instruments, the way we dance, even the tone of our language is curved. The West was built on angles. The East was built on curves."
Seen in Tehran, Iran.
Seen in The Grand Bazaar, Tehran, Iran.
When I first asked for their photograph, they smiled but didn't answer. I assumed that meant no."  I think they would like to,"  said my guide, but they are just being modest. It is a very Iranian way to act. Ask one more time  they will say yes."
A young group of teen boys from a local high school in Tehran. One of them asked me if I thought the world would end on December 21st. I told them: If the world ends on that day, I will give you all a million dollars."  This caused a brief flurry of excitement. Very brief.
Seen in The Grand Bazaar, Tehran, Iran.
Clearly not too excited about having her Little Ducky Outfit documented for eternity.
Seen in The Grand Bazaar, Tehran, Iran.
It seems that men everywhere feel the same way about shopping.
Seen in Tehran, Iran.
Seen in Tehran, Iran.
Before the revolution this was a famous disco. Now it is a restaurant."
Living in New York, I thought I had become a professional jaywalker. Not even close. It's a whole different league in Tehran. New Yorkers wait for a small break in the traffic to step into the street. Tehranis CREATE small breaks in traffic by stepping into the street. There is no waiting involved.
Seen in Tehran, Iran.
Seen in Tehran, Iran.
After an exhaustive day of travel, I was really warmed by all the Turkish-accented mail that flooded my inbox today: salutations, invitations, recommendations, etc. It was an overwhelming dose of cyber hospitality. Almost breaks my heart to announce that Istanbul is just a [beautiful, sprawling] layover. But I could get lost in those streets forever. One day I'll return and we can drink tea all day long.
This man offered me a cup of tea after I took his photo. It seemed like a good idea to accept his offer. He was super friendly, but it quickly became apparent that the extent of his English consisted of the phrase: Do you want some tea?"  Unable to communicate, we spent an awkward five minutes staring at our shoes and avoiding eye contact, while I burned the shit out of my tongue trying to finish the tea as fast as possible.
Seen in Istanbul, Turkey.
Seen in Istanbul, Turkey.
If you can't learn to skate, learn to look good falling.
An aspiring jewelry designer and occasional calligraphist, from Japan.
A little fun with George Takei in Times Square.
This man was walking down the sidewalk with a rolled-up canvas strapped to his back. I like to carry my art around with me,"  he explained, so it will soak up the energy of the city and have a heartbeat on the wall."
Can I see it?"  I asked.
Sure,"  he said. It's a self-portrait."
Little man's style acumen is clearly rubbing off on the adults in his life.
Seen in West Village.
Seen in Chelsea.
Seen in Greenwich Village.
Their father referred to them as his twinkies."
Feel free not to reblog this photo. If you hate puppies. And Christmas. 
Seen on the subway.
Dear Pringles,
Your latest marketing effort looks like a clown demon.
Love,HONY

P.S. Love your chips!
I'm half-French, half-Senegalese. But I just moved from London. But I'm from Milan. Actually, it's more complicated than that"
I thought these two looked great together so I asked for their photo. The man was immediately reluctant and (understandably) skeptical. Of course, from experience, I knew that he wasn't the one who'd be making the call. :)
Ladies love the nerds.
Key to Her Heart
Seen on 5th Avenue
While we were talking on the curb, she got clipped by a van that was attempting to parallel park. But she shook it off. Like she gets hit by vans everyday.
I'm not an acting expert. But Steve Buscemi gets my highest review: Whenever I see him act, I forget he's Steve Buscemi. Not many people know he was also a NY firefighter back in the 80's.
What was the happiest moment of your life?"
That's hard to say. I try to keep things zen and avoid peaks and valleys. 
Because those Christmas ornaments aren't going to sell themselves. 
The line is really long at 34th Street, so I park outside and mop up the spillover."
Best Thank You Note Ever

Original Photo:
If you could give one piece of advice, what would it be?"
Be nice and like people!"
Narcissus 
As a people photographer, my first response to something new is not aesthetic judgment, but rather thankfulness. Without the risk takers, I'd have nothing new to photograph. 
This man walked onto the subway and announced in a loud voice that Everyone is now on the Love Train!"  He then started blasting gospel music, volume 10. Ironically, some people opposite-of-loved it.
Seen at The Metropolitan Museum of Art
I was waiting on the subway platform late last night, when a girl walked by with an interesting brooch in her hair. I wasn't sure if it'd make a good photo or not. I was tired, and didn't feel like moving, but I mustered up the energy to chase her down for a pic. When I walked around the corner, Mediocre Brooch Girl had disappeared. And THIS WOMAN was standing in her place. I'm almost positive there's a life-affirming metaphor in there somewhere.
This man was just dominating the ice last night at Bryant Park. While the other skaters foolishly exerted themselves, he cruised along at no more than 1 mph. On the back of his shirt, scribbled in giant letters, was the word FLOWNESS."
I'm going to Israel next week."
You're not Jewish, are you?"
I am."
Jewish and what?"
Jewish and German, Iraqi, African, Irish, Portuguese, French, Cherokee, Lenape, and Blackfoot."
Overheard on First Avenue:
I need to buy a birthday present for my 13-year old nephew. But the only thing I'm sure that 13-year old boys like is titties."
A MORALITY TALE, 
IN THREE ACTS:
-
ACT ONE:
At 4:16 PM, I received a message in the HONY inbox from a girl named Guillar that said:
Hi I think one of your interns, or so she said she was, took a picture of me and a bunch of my friends today. I would honestly love it so much if you posted the picture because its my birthday."

ACT TWO:
At 5:15 PM, I replied, saying: 
I'm sorry. I have no idea who that was."

ACT THREE:
At 6:30 PM, I received a message from a girl named Tessa, that said:
Dear HONY,
I did something evil today.
I was out photographing and I saw this big group of high school kids being all rambunctious and awesome so I snapped a photo and once they saw me were like OMG ARE U HONY!?!?!"  and at first I thought it was a joke (obviously) and responded saying umm DUH I am his secret intern."  Soon after, however, I realized that this was not the case: their jaws dropped in awe and one by one they began introducing themselves and reaching out to shake my hand, all on their very best behavior. They also kept asking when it would be up on your page and I was like probably never since I am just the intern."  Then as I walked away they made me promise I'd tell them that they all love you and I began to feel like a huge asshole and wish I could go back and tell them the truth. 

EPILOGUE: 
I have no idea what the moral is, but here's the photo.
This drunk guy walked up behind me, draped his arm around my shoulder, and started repeating these words:
Open door, broken window. Open door, broken window.Is lady, is lady, is lady.Is man, is man, is man.Motherfucker is motherfucker. Rah puh pum pum"
He would then start laughing, tighten his grip on my shoulder, and begin the poem again. He repeated this process about six times. I was careful to transcribe his words accurately just in case he turned out to be the Shakespeare of wasted, seemingly nonsensical street poets.
Seen on the Upper East Side.
I tried to give her some gentle instructions but received very little feedback. Try speaking in Russian,"  her father said.
After Dasher tore his ACL last year during a flubbed rooftop landing, Apollo immediately began training to take his spot on the team.
Seen on the Upper East Side.
Perfect Rhythm
Going, going, gone.
Seen in Midtown.
Seen at Columbus Circle.
Seen in Midtown.
Something horrible has happened to Elmo.
Seen on Coney Island.
Lying down on the job.
Seen in Midtown.
Rawwwwr.
The Tallest Girl in the World
Happy Thanksgiving from HONY HQ! My girlfriend was on a mission all this week to organize a Thanksgiving meal for international students. After calling several local colleges, she located eight adventurous young peoplefrom six different countriesand invited them over for Thanksgiving dinner. She made an amazing meal, everyone had a great time, and I'm so proud of her for having the idea.

After the parade was over, the turkey got whisked away like he was Obama. 
2 PM and Susie's already drunk. She can never pace herself on holidays. We all have an aunt or uncle wearing this face right now. 
By far the most comedic vantage point of the Thanksgiving Day Parade is the finish line, when the fantasy ends and the characters are dumped back on the streets.
TURKEY MARCHES TRIUMPHANTLY DOWN 6TH AVE, then is quietly beheaded on 35th street. 
And that, kids, is Thanksgiving.
After a 75k surge in the final 24 hours, we ended up raising $318,530 for hurricane victims! Nearly 5,000 people donated pretty amazing. Thanks to everyone who donated. And thanks also to the Tumblr team, who was so much fun to work with. 
My goal is to have everything shipped out within two weeks. If you bought a personal portrait, or a HONY adventure day, I'll be in touch soon about scheduling. 
I would also like to take a moment to highlight Indiegogo's contribution. We were their 8th (out of over 100,000) most funded campaign everyet they decided to waive all fees. That represents nearly $22,000 being passed on to charity. 
Before the campaign began, I met up with Indiegogo CEO Slava Rubin while he was volunteering in the Rockaways. (Pictured) On the bus ride home, he spent an hour counseling me on the best way to run an Indiegogo campaign. It was invaluable advice. So special thanks to him and the entire Indiegogo team.
So. Close. To. $300,000!

FINAL CALL for donations. Fundraiser ends tonight! Last chance to snag tote bags, signed prints, personalized portraits, and HONY adventure days! Prints will not be available again for at least a year. The other stuff may never be available again. 

Thanks for putting up with all my fundraising pleas! I know your newsfeed is precious real estate, but we raised close to $300,000 for hurricane victims! We'll now be back to our regularly scheduled programming 
Seen in Grand Central.
Dear Supporters -

On behalf of the Siller Family and the Tunnel to Towers Foundation, I would like to say thank you to all those that participated in the Humans of New York and Tumblr Sandy Fundraiser. I am incredibly moved and proud of wh at you all have accomplished in just over a week! The Tunnel To Towers Foundation is committed to making both immediate and long-term impact for the thousands of families devastated by Hurricane Sandy in NY  NJ. Our impact would not be possible without people like you all that have taken action to make a difference! We are deeply inspired by you! Thank you for your support!

Together, we WILL rebuild.

Sincerely,
Frank Siller
Chairman, Tunnel to Towers Foundation

11 HOURS Left to Donate:

Modern Day Rembrandt
I hiked the Appalachian Trail for two weeks."
Did that change you in any way?"
Hmmm I'd say I became more balanced."
What do you mean by that?"
Just that if you get away from everything for two weeks, you're forced to focus on yourself."
I lived in this house since 1985. Honestly, in a cock-eyed way, it's a bit of a blessing that it burned down. Because flood insurance is a joke." 100% of all funds go to hurricane relief.14 Hours Left to Donate, Claim Prizes.
While I was touring the Rockaways, I heard about a 103 year old woman who'd been forced out of her home by the storm. When I arrived at the house, I found her children surveying the damage. We grew up here,"  they said. Our mother lived here for 65 years." How's she doing?"  I asked.She's quiet. Only 17 Hours Left to Donate: 
Hurricane Sandy Fundraiser ends tomorrow night. Next opportunity to get HONY prints will be many, many moons from now. I'm paying for the prints so 100% of your donation will go to help victims of the hurricane. Other goodies are also available. Everybody wins! 


BREAKING NEWS: Hyper-masculine, perfectly-groomed mystery man complements epic mustache with new puppy.
It's good luck if it lands on you.
I'm kinda pissed right now because my American flag just blew off."
It's my birthday. So I put on my happy suit."
What's your greatest struggle?"
Probably just adjusting to the pace of the city. I'm from a small town in the Netherlands, where shops close at 5 pm."
I just got cast in the Rocky Horror Picture Show!"
Wrapped around her finger.
Seen on the subway.
Seen in Grand Central.
THREE DAYS LEFT to donate to the fundraiser. Also three days left until I stop asking you for money. (Trust me, we're both relieved.) But it's for a great cause! 100% of money goes to help hurricane victims. Also offering some great stuff that may never be available again: HONY prints, personal HONY portrait sessions, and the chance to accompany me on a photo excursion. Nearly $210,000 raised so far. Let's see if we can hit $300,000 before the campaign ends!

More Info Here: 

What's the book about?"
The change our brain undergoes when we switch from recognition to deliberate cognition. 
I'm gonna need a pen."
I discovered this man in a crowded subway car. When he reached his stop, he pressed himself against the wall, and with a wave of his hand, politely allowed everyone else to exit before him, saying: Off you go! Off you go!"  When it was his turn to exit, he said: Whoop Whoop! Here I go!"
BREAKING NEWS: Everything's normal in Times Square. 
Hold up your leopard."
It's a cheetah!"
That's what I said. Hold up your cheetah."
:

My nephew asked why I don’t have a Tumblr account, given my love of goofy pics. So here it is! To celebrate, I’ve paired with Tumblr and Humans of New York to help with their Hurricane Sandy Fundraiser.

The Kiss
Passed this lady around midnight in Grand Central. I may be reaching here, but I've decided she's an awesome person based on her footwear alone.
Epic news, everyone.   *The Sound of Angels Singing*
Word has just been passed down from the top floor of Takei Tower, located in the heart of Takeipolis, in the land of Takeivia: Internet Emperor George Takei is joining the HONY/Tumblr fundraiser! To spice things up Takei style, he is also posing for a limited edition HONY Print: On Broadway. Oh Myyy!
By donating $75 (or more, if you have more to give!), you can be one of 200 people to own a limited edition George Takei button (filled with George Takei aura and George Takei energy!) and a special, hand-picked HONY print: 
By donating at least $150, you will receive one 8x12 print of the ultra-rare, super official, 100% certified fresh George Takei HONY portrait:  

100% of proceeds will be going directly to the Stephen Siller Tunnel to Towers Foundation in order to provide much-needed resources to those areas hit hardest by Hurricane Sandy. 
How's it going so far?"
Well, one person bought a poem for $2. Then another person screamed something about global warming, and threw a quarter at us."
Yikes."
Here's the poem I received for my donation:
A bright dressDancing in the steamHomemade JewelryA memoryon my screenfrom anotherA patterned umbrellaKissing in the darkActs of loveA passion shared acrossA world of livesHONYA positive, beautiful,unreal world

5 Days Left:

Seen in Rockefeller Center
Seen in Chelsea.
If this one looks a little close-up,"  it's because she started walking toward the camera like the street was a runway. I personally loved the enthusiasm.
What a team.
Urban Safari
I dropped into the Tunnels to Towers Foundation office last week to tell them about our fundraiser. Honestly, I expected my proposal to be met with extreme enthusiasm. Trumpets, confetti, things like that.Instead it was met by Tony. 
Tony runs the foundation's Hurricane Sandy Relief Effort. He didn't even crack a smile. He just started grilling me with questions:Are you making money off this?" Is PayPal making money off this?" Is Indiegogo making money off this?" It felt like an FBI interrogation. He seemed to doubt everything I was telling him. He wasn't even going to listen to our idea, or smile, until he was absolutely convinced that 100% was going to the hurricane victims. And that's why we are trusting Tony with our money.6 Days Left to Donate to the HONY/Tumblr Fundraiser. All expenses covered by us. 100% of revenues go to hurricane relief. (As verified by Tony) Rare HONY prints being offered for the second time in history. Prints will not be made available again for a long, long while:
Help is on the way!
Seen in Harlem
God I love .
We've only got one rule here.  We don't judge by color.  We don't judge by religion.  We don't judge by clothing, or anything else.  We only judge by talent."
This photo was sent in by some middle schoolers in Flushing, Queens. Along with the following warning to other contest participants:Dear Weaklings,Quit now. You will never defeat us. We have heard of your school, and we know it is fi
lled with lazy bums. Stop hoping to dine at the Table of Karp. Do not yearn for the riches of his mind. Stop wishing for HONY immortality. These prizes are only for the strong, the determined, the wily in mind and courageous of heart. They are not for you. Give up.-The Flushing Fire Dragons**Some, or all, of this message may have been edited, or completely fabricated, by an assistant of HONY, or by HONY himself
After three days, we've raised nearly $165,000. That makes me proud as hell. We've made a great big pile of awesome. The people at the Tunnel to Towers Foundation are just thrilled to see how much has been raised in such a short amount of time. Everyone at Tumblr is super excited too. After 3 days, we're already one of the biggest campaigns in Indiegogo history. 
We're working overtime to keep the momentum going. We all feel so lucky to be a part of this effort. Thanks so much to everyone has contributed so far. 
There's one week left to donate. If you can, add another scoop to the pile. We're covering all expenses ourselves, so 100% of your donation will go to relief efforts, and you can still walk away with some sweet stuff, including HONY prints. 


If you could give one piece of advice, what would it be?"
Come to places like this."
Seen in Central Park
Ran into Police Commissioner Kelly during his tour of The Rockaways. When I explained we were holding a fundraiser, he graciously allowed me to take his photograph. I'm not an expert in body language, but I'm thinking now that I shouldn't have told him where to stand.
They were walking down the street, just like this.
A human conveyor belt helps to transfer supplies into St. Francis Church in The Rockaways, which is currently being used as a temporary warehouse for relief efforts.Donate Now / Get Goodies : 
One of the best things about winter is little kids in big clothes.
Celebrating the big One Week Anniversary!
Seen in Union Square
So Tumblr CEO, occasional model, and all-around-nice-guy David Karp has passed down word that we can use him in any way"  to help with the fundraiser. So here's what we're gonna do:NYC HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS:Form a team of 3 to 5 people.
 Wash cars, walk dogs, sell cupcakes, do what needs to be done. Then donate as a team by the end of the fundraiser. TOP THREE TEAMS will get 1) A group HONY portrait, shared on the blog2) Copies of that portrait, signed by me3) A tour of Tumblr HQ 4) David and I will take you out to lunchAt lunch we will discuss highly guarded secrets of the internet. (Then when the check comes, we will all look at David awkwardly and hope he picks up the tab.) You never know maybe only three teams will enter. You can win this. If you're in middle school, and think you can take on the high schoolers, be my guest. May the odds be ever in your favor. ***Important*** Make your donation by the end of the fundraiser:When you've made your donation, send an email to honytumblr@gmail.com. Include your team name, the amount raised, and the name the donation was made under.
Are you volunteering today?" Something like that. I'm the Chief of Personnel for the New York Fire Department. I'm making sure everyone is where they need to be, and has what they need." Oh wow. Do you mind if I take your photo?" Sure. Can my son be in the picture?" Help with Relief Efforts / Get Goodies: 
I can tie a full windsor while driving down the road at 65 mph."
Look who jumped on board!
George Takei raised $20,000 in an hour for  last night, then celebrated by posting this picture of dogs on his wall. May he live forever.
The neighbor's dog got loose!"
Whatever's needed."
Our job is to shovel sand, and load any trash we find into bags."  (The Rockaways)


Contrasting the devastation, there are many lighthearted scenes scattered throughout the affected areas. This car was completely destroyed except for the stereo system, which provided an upbeat soundtrack for about 100 volunteers in The Rockaways. I believe Elvis was playing when this photo was taken.
A huge sense of camaraderie is evident among everyone working in the storm areas. If you're able to get out there one day, you will definitely leave with some new friends. If you can't make it, please consider donating. The first 14 hours of the campaign have been nothing short of awe-inspiring. Let's keep fueling the fire: 
Seen on Staten Island.Donate Now: 
I want kick this thing off by telling you guys a little bit about the amazing charity this campaign is supporting. was created in 2003, by the family of Stephen Siller, who passed away on 9/11. His picture hangs on several walls in the office. Though he died over 10 years ago, I heard his name mentioned several times during my visit. After visiting Tunnel to Towers, I felt it was the perfect choice for this fundraiser. The charity is filled with good people doing good things in memory of a good man. Here is Stephen's story:
On September 11th, firefighter Stephen Siller had just gotten off the late shift at Squad 1, Park Slope, Brooklyn. He was on his way to play golf with his brothers on that bright clear day when his scanner told of the first plane hitting the Twin Towers. When he heard the news, he called his wife Sally to tell her he would be late because he had to help those in need. He returned to Squad 1 to get his gear, then took his final heroic steps to the World Trade Center. When Stephen drove his truck to the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel, it was already closed to traffic . With sixty pounds of gear strapped to his back, he ran through the Tunnel, hoping to meet up with his own company, Squad 1. Every year, Tunnel to Towers holds a charity run to retrace Stephen's steps. The last two weeks, they have played a major role in Hurricane Sandy relief. Please join us in helping them with their efforts.DONATE NOW:
Hey guys. For the next ten days, I'm going to be dedicating HONY to raising money for Hurricane Sandy. We're going to try to do this in a HONY-like way. All of the blog's content will be dedicated to telling the stories of people affected by the storm. Sandy left behind a lot of sad stories, but also some happy ones. We're going to try to tell them all. The good people at Tumblr have stepped in to cosponsor the fundraiser, and they are going to be promoting these stories through their channels. We will simultaneously be holding an Indiegogo campaign. I'm excited to announce that 100% of proceeds will be going to relief efforts: Indiegogo is waiving fees. Paypal is waiving fees. Tumblr is providing goodies. And I'm covering the cost of the photographs. We found a damn good charity too. The Stephen Siller Tunnel to Towers Foundation is a family-owned charity in Staten Island, located right in the heart of one of the worst hit areas. They've been doing amazing work the last couple weeks, and have been endorsed by many government officials. 
I want to emphasize that this is a fundraiser, and not a print sale. With that being said, I can assure you that it will be the last time prints will be made available for at least a year. Perhaps much longer than that. Let's have some fun next week and kick some Sandy ass!The campaign page:
Gave an in-depth interview over the weekend for my friends at . It's a really smart webzine that interviews a variety of artists/thinkers/designers/engineers about urban issues. You can check the interview out here:
I'm trying to make it to the top."
What's the top?"
For meit's just living comfortably."
So close, yet so far away.
Seen in Grand Central.
Went to the Radio City Christmas Extravaganza yesterday. Look what was sitting behind me.

Dedication.
Seen in Midtown.
59 years."
This little guy was walking home from school with his mom and sister. And, judging by his confusion, he had no idea how awesome he looked.
Seen in Union Square.
If you could give one piece of advice, what would it be?"
Take your education as far as you can."
Full Steam Ahead
Russia."
Seen in Union Square.
The shoes are from Brazil. The feet are from France.
I saw a steam-spewing grate in the middle of the street yesterday, which created quite a beautiful effect. I asked a few people to stand on it, but everyone brushed me off. Then luckily a HONY fan walked by. I knew she'd be a HONY fan because she was the most colorful girl on the street.
What was the happiest moment of your life?"
There are two: when my son was born, and last night."
The hand of a Siberian filmmaker that I met in Union Square.
Seen in Union Square.
‎That restaurant back there doesn't like me. Every time I start playing, they start blasting Rihanna.
Birds of a Feather
Great to see that Cat-On-Head Man came through the storm with cat still firmly on head.
Can't stop, won't stop.
LIVE from Rockefeller Center: The President of street photography
Anniversary? Birthday?"
Just because."
I'd make jewelry all day long if I could afford to."
Normally wealth and poverty are separated, both geographically and socially. That's why I find Robert Steel's work so interesting. Every one of his pieces superimposes a scene of luxury onto a scene of struggle. He often has a booth set up in Union Square. I always stop by to check out his latest piece.
A glimpse into the journal of a (quite intelligent) 16 year old girl. Photographed, with permission, in Central Park. 
I was at a volunteer station in Staten Island this weekend when I recognized a man. I remembered taking his photo on Christmas Day last year, in Greenwich Village. The holiday-themed caption was: Count Your Blessings."  How fitting that I'd discover him one year later, on the other side of the city, helping with hurricane relief.
This man was so interesting. He was homeless and barefoot, yet extremely articulate, and armed with an iPhone that he used for street photography. Asked about the iPhone, he said: I'm homeless but I've got good credit. 

He then showed me one of his photos. I snapped this photo of a famous model,"  he said. I guess I smelled a little ripe that day because she was incredibly rude to me and made the most horrible face. So I touched up the photo a bit."
What's your favorite thing about each other?"
He brings me tea in bed."
The conversations we have at night."
I discovered these four on a devastated street in New Dorp. They were cleaning debris out of a flooded house. The couple on the left is from Harlem. The couple on the right is from Ireland. They met this morning on the Staten Island Ferry, and decided to spend the day volunteering together.

To complete the circle, they were all HONY fans. :) 
In this week's matchup, the Staten Island Hurricanes take on Hurricane Sandy. Staten Island favored by three touchdowns.
So three weeks ago, Vogue.com asked HONY to carve a pumpkin for Halloween. My friend Alp Sagnak from  helped me carve it. Alp is from Turkey and had never carved a pumpkin before. We both had fun with it, and Alp was delighted to discover that the inside of a pumpkin feels like a vagina." So why am I telling you this on November 5th? Because Vogue's servers were literally swamped by Sandy, and just came back online. And I've been waiting patiently this whole time to show off our damn pumpkin, which you can see here: 
This little guy was riding on a crowded Staten Island Railroad car when he shouted: Hey everybody! I'm three years old! And my mom is seventy years old!"
Somebody on the other side of the car shouted back: Can I get the name of mom's lotion?"
In times of crisis, we realize the mass amount of manpower and infrastructure underlying those resources we take for granted. This truck was driven into Staten Island by , a charity that specializes in delivering fuel to disaster areas. A little less romantic than handing out food and blankets, but such important work. Their motto: The next best thing to food, water, and shelter."
Volunteers from the Staten Island Muslim-American Society, heading back to their car for more supplies. 
Seen on Staten Island.
These two women came from the Netherlands to run in the marathon today. Instead of moping about the event being cancelled, they spent their time volunteering on Staten Island. Saw so many people in running gear today, helping New Yorkers remove debris from their houses. Makes sense because nobody who signed up for a marathon is afraid of hard work.
Firefighters from FDNY Engine 228. When I was taking the photo, a bystander leaned in and whispered: They aren't even on the job. It's their day off."
We ordered a bunch of pizzas for the firefighters. And when we came to pick them up, they refused to let us pay for them. 
World's most dignified bus stop discovered on 96th Street.
She roared, she soared, from Atlantic shore.
All the way to Manhattan's core.
She came, she went, we saw,
she left us all in awe.
We sketch, we plan, we draw,
we could not escape her claw."
Dreamscape
Family rides free.
I asked them which one was the best skater. I expected for a masculine impulse to kick in, and for somebody to raise their hand. Instead, they shrugged and said: We've all got different styles."
Seen in Greenwich Village.
Seen in Sea Gate, Brooklyn.
A Sheepshead Bay woman salvages what she can from her drowned spice garden. She didn't speak English, but she did her best to show me where the water leaked through her doorframe. Walking through the affected areas, I was struck by how eager people were to share their stories. They seemed relieved to see somebody with a camera.
A colorful pair in SoHo.
Currently in line for the Jay Street shuttle between Brooklyn and Manhattan. Looks can be decieving though. I've only been in line for about 15 minutes and I'm almost on a bus. Seems to me the MTA is doing a great job keeping the blood flowing during all of this.
I love how much he knows about Scienceespecially Chemistry. Chemistry really turns me on."
Seen in Breezy Point, Queens.
Seen in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn.
Seen in Breezy Point, Queens.
When I asked the boy to tell me his favorite thing about his father, he gave a pretty touching answer, especially given the circumstances: Dad finds a way to make everything fun."
These kids made me laugh. Despite their predicament, they were pretty excited about being on HONY. When I walked up, they were in the process of dismounting from the boat. But they helped me out by piling back in for the photo op.
Seen on Coney Island, Brooklyn.
I was going to ride it out, but a police officer knocked on my door at 7:30 and told me that if I didn't leave, I was going to jail. Sure glad he came by."
Seen on Coney Island.
Seen in Sea Gate, Brooklyn.
Seen in Sea Gate, Brooklyn.
Could you ask them to send fresh water to Neptune Avenue?"
Seen in Sea Gate, Brooklyn.
Looks like a Halloween pic. But no just some dude I found a couple weeks ago in the subway.
Seen on Coney Island.
Seen on Broadway.
Seen on Coney Island.
Seen on Coney Island.
Seen on Lower East Side.
Met this man while crossing over the Williamsburg Bridge yesterday. He introduced himself as Circus, The Travelling Magician. He then handed me a Book of Spells. Allow me to share some of the highlights:
The Spell to Make Strangers Wish You Happy Birthday:" Make a sign that says It's My Birthday,"  and hang it around your neck.
The Cuddle Inducing Spell:Simply hang up a sign that says Cuddle Zone."  Put a few soft pillows and blankets under it.
Spell to Make Objects Move Through The Air:Make sure there is a nice person in close proximity both to you and the object you desire. Then simply stretch your arm out toward the object and, in less than a minute, it will float magically into your hand. 
It's Halloween!
New York, after Sandy.

Photo by Nick Summers:
Seen on the Upper East Side.
Truthfully? It was pretty fun."
Supply and Demand
I asked her dad why she was carrying a candy bucket. He said: She's an optimist."
What's your favorite thing about each other?"
I love his compassion."
Crap, I was going to say that."
What was the happiest moment of your life?"
When I married my mare."
Your mare?"
That's what I call Mary."
Clean-up has begun.
Category One hurricanes can allow for some Category Five dance moves.
My First Hurricane
Gangs of looters roaming the streets.
Back to you in the studio. 
No need to go outside. All necessary work is being handled by trained professionals. 
Recent fan art has been showing an increasingly sophisticated understanding of my weaknesses. 

Painting by
May need to strap it to the hood.
What was the happiest moment of your life?"
Last night when I was drunk. The saddest moment is right now. Cause I feel like shit."
Seen on the Subway
Seen in Union Square.
What's the best thing about walking barefoot?"
You feel more alive. You feel the heat. You feel the cold."
What's the worst thing?"
Probably stepping in shit."
Good news, everyone! All remaining mysteries of the Universe were solved yesterday afternoon.
I'm studying to get a PhD in Neuroscience, but in my free time I like to perform in burlesque shows."
Lying down, looking up.
I'm not a ham. I'm the whole pig. 
It's the most wonderful time of the year.
Seen in East Village
What's your favorite thing about your dad?"
He's interesting. He does a lot of neat things."
What's your favorite thing about your son?"
He's a good man."
What's your greatest struggle?"
Probably just living apart from my parents for the first time."
What's the most valuable thing you've ever found in the trash?"
I found a really nice antique picture once. 
I love your Santa hat."
I know you didn't just call my hat a Santa hat."
What's your favorite thing about your mom?"
She loves to eat."
Cook. She means I love to cook."
What's your favorite thing about him?"  Honestly?"  Honestly."  He's got great sex game."
Rare shot of Mad Dog McBones, ruthless leader of the Bloody Demons biker gang.
Hey HONY! I sent you an email about my snowcone fundraiser for autism awareness, and you never responded!"
Oh, um, uh. wanna take a pic right now? 
What was the happiest moment of your life?"
I don't know. I've got no wife, no kids. Maybe it hasn't been all that happy happy yet."
There was 1 AM shit going down at 1 PM today.
World's most adorable private concert was held today on Prince Street.
Where are you hiking?"
The liquor store."
The Overlook
Hide your wives.
I found this guy bouldering in Central Park, and took a few photos. Afterwards, I told him the photos would be going on a blog. Oh!"  he said, Then we should take a few shirtless ones, cause that's how I normally climb. 
A good friend of mine was diagnosed with colon cancer when he was 31 years old, and died 9 months later. I immediately quit my job and travelled for two years." *
*Randall White: Too many have symptoms and don't talk about it. I was 42 when diagnosed with colon cancer. We do not need to die of embarrassment.
This photogenic cross of pennies was arranged near the collection bucket of a homeless man. It makes for a moving image, but the morality of giving cash donations to the city's homeless can sometimes get tricky. 
I've seen one mother who brings her children along while she begs on the subway cars. I've seen her 6 or 7 times, and every time she's gotten several dollars during her 3-minute trip through my subway car. I always wonder if I'm the only passenger multiplying those dollars by 20, only to discover a giant, tax-free hourly wage. 
Yet every person who made a donation feels that they've made the moral decision. And I'm not saying they didn't. I'm just saying it's tricky.
Boom! 
Seen in Washington Square Park
Green Room
After they finished kissing, she took off her blue cape, and laid it over a woman sleeping on a nearby bench. It was such an unbelievably poetic moment, I actually chased them down to fact-check my own eyes.
Excuse me. Was that your blue blanket?" Yes." And you just gave it to her?" .Yes, why?" Oh nothing."

Is that you?"  Kinda."
Due to a misunderstanding of the word street portrait,"  this man spent the first 30 seconds of our conversation trying to convince me he wasn't homeless.
I found this little guy in the pumpkin patch at the Queens County Farm Museum. All those pumpkins gave me a great idea for a portrait. I thought it was a great idea. His mom thought it was a great idea. His dad thought it was a great idea. Only one person didn't like the idea. 
I'm inventing an exercise machine called the Super Flow Flex 360. I think it contains the seeds of world peace, because the flow you get on this thing takes you to a cosmic consciousness."
I thought these two complemented each other so well.
Writing a novel is like driving from New York to Los Angeles in a fog so dense you can only see 50 yards in front of your face."
Thor, God of Scooter
What's your story?"
Working, sleeping, thinking, and drinking."
Seen in Union Square
Where would you like to be ten years from now?"
Well, I know there's more glamorous answers, but I think I'd like to be a professor of philosophy."
I found her on a bench, reading a book called The Consolations of Philosophy. 
Given the unbelievable amount of attention the yesterday's post has gotten, Stella has (quite fairly) asked me to post my portrait of her, along with some context. Hope everyone takes a second to imagine what it's like to have tens of thousands people viewing / supporting / judging / commenting on you at one time. 
About Stella:
I struggled with body image my whole life. As a young teen, I was diagnosed with Polycystic ovarian syndrome. PCOS makes it incredibly hard to lose weight, and spikes up your insulin levels which can lead to diabetes and other complications. I felt like I was just getting bigger and bigger and could do nothing to stop it. I was so awkward and uncomfortable with what I looked like that I began to self-medicate in the way most teenagers do, except it was to a scary excess. Finally, my parents intervened and when I was 15 I got the help I needed. The past 2 and a half years have essentially been a struggle to come to terms with who I am and live life in a constructive, not destructive manner.
A couple weeks ago, I started a blog, just as a way to get out my thoughts and feelings. I found the body acceptance movement online, and it was like my eyes were open for the first time. I realized that my size or weight is not something to be ashamed of, it is a part of me. Health and weight are not synonymous, and I know that to be healthy means to manage my sobriety and PCOS the best that I can. I may not ever be thin, but that's okay. It's all about progress, not perfection.
So I posted a picture of myself in my underwear with a message to all the people who'd ever bullied me about what I looked like. Amazingly, in less than a week, it got over 50,000 likes and reblogs. It's upwards of 80,000 now, and the response has been 90% positive, I would say.
Two friends of mine, Savanna and Lucy, are in the process of planning a documentary on sizeism and its effect on young girls. My dream is to go back to my middle school, where all my body image issues began, and work with young girls on the issues of self-esteem, body image, sizeism, and bullying. I want to give these girls something I never knew, which was that your body does not define who you are as a person. To people who judge people on their size, weight, pants size or health - shame on you. No one is the authority on beauty, and everyone has a different road to trudge to happy destiny. 
STELLA'S BLOG:
We get along good."
Today I met an NYU student named Stella. I took a photo of her. Afterwards, she told me about a self-portrait she recently posted on Tumblr. So, instead of the photo I took, here is her self-portrait:
:

WARNING: Picture might be considered obscene because subject is not thin. And we all know that only skinny people can show their stomachs and celebrate themselves. Well I’m not going to stand for that. This is my body. Not yours. MINE. Meaning the choices I make about it, are none of your fucking business. Meaning my size, IS NONE OF YOUR FUCKING BUSINESS.
If my big belly and fat arms and stretch marks and thick thighs offend you, then that’s okay. I’m not going to hide my body and my being to benefit your delicate sensitivities.
This picture is for the strange man at my nanny’s church who told me my belly was too big when I was five.
This picture is for my horseback riding trainer telling me I was too fat when I was nine.
This picture is for the girl from summer camp who told me I’d be really pretty if I just lost a few pounds
This picture is for all the fucking stupid advertising agents who are selling us cream to get rid of our stretch marks, a perfectly normal thing most people have (I got mine during puberty)
This picture is for the boy at the party who told me I looked like a beached whale.
This picture is for Emily from middle school, who bullied me incessantly, made mocking videos about me, sent me nasty emails, and called me lard. She made me feel like I didn’t deserve to exist. Just because I happened to be bigger than her. I was 12. And she continued to bully me via social media into high school.
MOST OF ALL, this picture is for me. For the girl who hated her body so much she took extreme measures to try to change it. Who cried for hours over the fact she would never be thin. Who was teased and tormented and hurt just for being who she was.
I’m so over that.
THIS IS MY BODY, DEAL WITH IT.
and FUCK YOU ALL who tried to degrade my being and sense of self with your hurtful comments and actions.
GUESS WHAT IT DIDN’T WORK HAHAHAHAH
xoxoxoxoxoox

I heard that Yoga class was a great place to meet women, so I went every day for three months. Bad news is I didn't meet a girl. Good news is I can now give myself a blowjob."
And now for today's installment of Toddlers With Better Style Than Me.
Seen in Central Park.
Awesome things about this photo:
1) Guy in front, who looks like he's hitting the climax of a show tune.
2) Girl behind him, who's improved her own position by arm-blocking her friend's face.
3) The face of the guy with the scarf.
4) Girl in red deciding to go with the swallowed-a-bug"  face.
5) The girl in the back, with the glasses, who after the photo was finished, kept trying to hold my hand.
6) Hairstyles being rocked on far left of photo.
What's your greatest struggle?"
I don't know romantic, financial. Listen, I've really got to head back inside."

He looked at me straight-faced and said: You know, HONY is one of the only things keeping people from getting lost in The Matrix. 
‎What was the happiest moment of your life?
Whenever I'm in the sun."
Seen in SoHo.
If this guy was performing ahead of me at a talent show, I'd trow my kazoo in the trash and head for the fire exit.
I saw a page in her notebook labeled My Inspiration Board."  You know somebody is true to herself when her Inspiration Board"  is camouflaged against her clothing. 
I asked their favorite thing about each other, and they answered as follows:

She never forgets she's my mother."
And he never forget's he's my son."
Have a blessed day."
I'm an actor. My wife works in Fashion, so I'm sort of the freelancer of the family."
What role are you proudest of?"
Well one of my favorite roles was actually pretty small. I played Bob Ewell in To Kill A Mockingbird the character was a really vicious racist. It was an interesting role for me because my best friend growing up was African-American. We played together on the football team, and we got in quite a few scuffles with other players who gave him a hard time because he was black. So I guess the role gave me the opportunity to mirror some of the behaviors that I witnessed back then."
Seen at Comic Con.
I asked these two to pose together because they were about the same height. But fearful of being associated with a rank amateur, the boy on the right threw his friend under the bus. He's just learning,"  he explained, but I can really skate."
This boy was part of a group of four zombies. When I asked for a group portrait, the other three zombies seemed reluctant. The boy, however, immediately hit the floor. Plans have changed,"  I said. Everybody else out of the shot. 
She's my newer, more improved version."
We were both involved in the Civil Rights Movement. We met 47 years ago on a picket line."

City's rodent problem continues to spiral out of control.
Panhandlers grow increasingly aggressive.
Seen at Comic Con
Nobody tells Captain America what to do.
Well, almost nobody.
Seen in Midtown
Seen at Comic Con*
*I can confirm it was breathing
Got a little overexcited when I met The Oatmeal yesterday. May have freaked him out. OK, definitely freaked him out. If you see him at Comic Con today, apologize for me.
Seen at Comic Con
Likely vampire spotted this afternoon on 5th Street, moving west at 5 mph. Could be anywhere by now.
The 1%
Watched this guy chase a remote control car in circles for 20 minutes. If he attacks life with the same intensity, he's gonna go far. (If you don't believe me, look at that face.)
What's your goal?"
To be high up in the fashion world."
What's your greatest obstacle?"
Money."
Seen in Central Park
Seen in Chelsea.
What was the happiest day of your life?"
The first time I got some buns."
Some buns?"
Just say the day I became a man."
Attention to detail.
Always nerve wracking when you're called into the boss's office.
What's the biggest obstacle you've overcome?"
I guess just learning to be myself."
Seen on 14th Street.
This guy was a great sport. He asked why I wanted to take his photograph, and his friend shouted: Because you look like a Muslim Colonel Sanders!"
He asked me a few questions about my photography, then said: Do you think you're gonna make it?"  This caused me to pause for a moment and reflect on what making it"  means to me. And what making it"  means to him.
I listened to my teacher and went beyond and above."
Seen on the subway.
Seen in Crown Heights
I'm deaf in one ear, so I built a helmet that transforms sound into vibrations, which resonate against my skull and register in my inner ear."

*I wanted to hug her, but didn't want to freak her out. 
So I'll just share her website instead:
I study sculpture."  How are your sculptures different from other people's?"  One thing is that I use a lot of found objects."
Desperados
I like your glasses."
Thanks. I have a Lamborghini in the same color."
I may be broke now, but I'm 70 years old. It took a lot of money to get here."
In one of those moments that encapsulates an era, this Argentine man was captured by a New York photographer because his father was live-streaming his trip to Times Square.
He eats about 12 cans per day. You can literally see him growing daily."
A Novel Approach 
This is what's known as the never coming back to New York"  face. Caused mainly by rats, trash, and aggressive panhandlers or tree people.
Seen in Central Park.
The Guided Tour. 
(Guess which one was asked to pause his video game.)
:

Candy cabbie Mansoor Khalid gives passengers as much candy as they want.


Now that’s one sweet ride.
Taxi driver Mansoor Khalid is on a one-man mission to cheer up New Yorkers with a daily dose of candy.
The New York life is not the easy life, Khalid, 36, told the Daily News. People are depressed. I see a lot of people stressed sitting back there.
Khalid is no stranger to stress. He dubbed his taxi the NYC Candy Cab after his 2-year-old son died in April from a long battle with heart disease.
I learned a lot of things, he said of the trauma of losing his child, who underwent two heart transplants and lost a kidney before he passed away. Life is too short.
Khalid, who moved to New York from Pakistan in 1993 and has been driving a cab since 1997, had already seen the impact of small acts of generosity. During the two years he spent in the hospital with his son, he routinely brought coffee and desserts to the doctors and nurses when he got off his shift at 1 a.m.
They got so happy when in the middle of the night I gave every person coffee, he said. I was so nice to them and they were so nice to me.
After his son died, Khalid decided to bring his routine to the people he interacted with every day in his cab.
Khalid said he was inspired to do something sweet after the death of his 2-year-old son.
I was very depressed, losing my little boy, he said. Somehow, God gave me this idea. Now (I’m) chit-chatting and time is flying by!
Though he doesn’t eat much candy himself — Skittles, only — Khalid offers a wide variety of sweets, and has started cataloguing his collection on Instagram. Fans can also follow him on Twitter (), and he may even start a blog for his growing following.
One such fan was thrilled to discover the cab on a late night out last weekend, and quickly spread the word about him through social media.
We all started freaking out, said David Weiner, 27. You don’t see piles of candy like that in adulthood. It’s just one of those things that reminds you you’re in New York and anything can happen.
And Khalid’s unusual project has the full support of the city.
We encourage drivers to go the extra mile in the name of customer service, and Mr. Khalid certainly does this, said Taxi and Limousine Commission boss David Yassky. We appreciate the loyalty he inspires in his passengers.
Loyalty isn’t the goal, considering that Khalid responds to every hail, candy or no candy. His mission is to spread warmth.
It’s a little thing, he said, but people get happy.


Some weird stuff going on in Central Park today.
The greatest moment for a playwright is when you've written a play, and you've gone to see it night after night, then one night the cast takes it to a whole new level, and you say: "Did I write that?'"
What's my greatest struggle? Eh. I should not complain."
Just Like Dad
I started off asking him about his service: his rank (Chief Petty Officer), his ship (USS Michael Murphy), etc. He was quite comfortable with the line of questioning. Then I suddenly asked: What's your favorite thing about your wife? 
His eyes bulged ever-so-slightly, he swallowed once, and without missing a beat, answered: Her drive and determination."  Well done, Sailor. Steady under fire.
I'll try not to make a Bitch Face."
Seen in Harlem
‎If you are an artist, you can't forget about the business side of things. Business is at least 50% of the equation. You have to hustle work hard on marketing, galleries, branding. I realized this too late. So when my 15 minutes of fame came, it ended at 15 minutes.
What's your favorite thing about your dad?"
His green beard. Most of the time."
I'm a hacker."
This was sent in by Varsha Vijayan of Bangalore, India. Put a smile on my face.
Me: What's your favorite thing about your brother?" Red Glasses: He plays with me." Blue Glasses: Don't forget I'm a good speller." Red Glasses: Oh yeah." Blue Glasses: I help him with his homework. A lot."
Seen in Midtown
One day you're gonna realize who I am, and you're gonna say "Oh, shit!'"
So who are you?"
I'm the guy in your photograph."
I've been independent my whole life. I've never said "gimme gimme' to anyone."
What was the happiest moment of your life?"  Probably when I was dreaming."  When were you dreaming?"  About ice cream."
It's a myrtle branch, a willow branch, a palm branch, and an etrog. They symbolize the four different types of Jews."
Can you hold them apart so I can see them better?"
They're supposed to stay together. 
The Confucius of our time. 
Is this your passion taking pictures?"
It is."
And do you make money doing it?"
Enough."
Then that's all that matters."
So, what's your passion?"
Life."
Do you make money doing it?"
Enough."
This man was great. He saw me photographing his coworker, and quickly volunteered himself for the next shot: I work here too,"  he said, get me next."  Then he planted himself in front of me, and instead of looking into the camera, chose to stare valiantly into the sky.
Cool art, but the sales pitch could use a little work.
Sweet Tooth
You can try, but she may be too shy"
What's your favorite thing about your wife?"
She's sexy."
I think she started to have second thoughts about posing in the street.
His mom started to ask him if he wanted his picture taken, but he said yes"  before she could finish. 
Like everyone, I sometimes feel like I'm in a slump. I either think I'm not getting enough portraits, or that I'm messing up the portraits I am getting. This feeling can be magnified by the need for daily content.

Whenever I'm feeling this way, a great portrait will come along that will snap me back to optimism. And I'll think: Man, I really needed that."  Tonight that portrait came from Mark, who I just ran into ten minutes ago. When I finished taking his photo, he said: Man, my mom is in the hospital, I really needed that."
Honestly, I don't care what they're doing/selling, if a kid is trying to make some honest money, I am paying up. Entrepreneurship takes a lot of courage, and I think it's a civic duty to support a child with ambition. On the flip side of that, there comes a time when you are too large to attempt backflips on the subway. Not everyone realizes 
I asked her what she did, and instead of stating an occupation, she said: I'm a Burner."
What does that mean?"  I asked.
It means I go to Burning Man."
He hurt his front foot."
You know you've made an impact on the world when on your 143rd birthday, people throw a party for your statue. 
Seen in Central Park
Want to hear a crazy story? I went to an exhibit at the International Center of Photography, and ended up seeing a picture of myself on the wall!"
Photogenic cat spotted on Franklin Avenue. 
Seen in Crown Heights, Brooklyn.
A Common Thread
She wanted to put on her special unicorn T-shirt,"  but I told her I liked the colors she was wearing. Having had time to reflect on my actions, that was a total Scrooge move on my part. 
Family Resemblance
Almost everyone played it cool for the camera.
Business is very, very slow. But I'll make it. I've been here for 23 years."

FYI: His store is located on the corner of Fulton and Nostrand, in Bedford-Stuyvesant.
It’s a fishing lure. I’m pretty sure it’s used for live bait. I found it on the beach.
Sticking Together
Mother and Cubs
A Head Full of Dreams
She was part of a tour group from Japan. Everyone thought the big American with the camera was hilarious. Just hilarious. 
Swaggin' since long before the word was invented.
The Cadillac's in the shop.
Spiderdad
This guy was just walking through the subway car, saying hilariously awkward things to people. He got down on one knee and started singing to the girl on the end of the row. When he finished the song, he explained: In twenty years, we're going to laugh about how I sang to you when we first met."  Then he walked over to the guy in the foreground, pointed at the girl next to him, and said: You two should really hook up."
Wandered into the lobby of the Hearst Building yesterday. What a beautiful, inspiring piece of architecture.
Just so you guys know how much I love you
INCOMING CUTENUKE
I had never seen these wearable tattoo sleeves"  before. She said she got them in Thailand.
Something tells me that piano isn't playing a lot of Bach.
These three were looking quite cinematic. I'm thinking embattled Queen flanked by her two best fighters.

I'm trying to become a musician sensitive enough to create a feeling of environment and transportation when sound occurs over time." *

*New quote added by request of subject.
Seen in Union Square.
Seen on the Lower East Side.
I was going to articulate why I like this kid's style, but I think I'll just simplify things and say he looks cool as shit. He was in the middle of a scavenger hunt, and had just earned 5 points for posing with a woman over 6 feet tall."
I used to be an accountant. Now I'm a kayaker."
Seen in Central Park.
Possibly the world's most adorable dodgeball game.

I remember taking an Anthropology class in college, and the professor was explaining that there is little sexual dimorphism"  in humans. He meant that there are few outward, observable differences between males and females. (Other than reproductive organs, of course.)

At the time I was confused, so I raised my hand. I feel like it's very easy to tell men and women apart,"  I said. 
That's due to culture,"  he explained.
It's moss from the only temperate forest in the United States, on the Pacific Coast. It doesn't snow, so the ground is covered in bright green moss. It's very beautiful."

He also made the jacket:
Dear Tumblr,
Thanks for being awesome.  Here's a photograph of an adorable toddler to show our endless appreciation.
Love always,Humans of New York
PS:  Our  just passed 300,000 likes."   Boo-yah.
I told him: I love the detail in your hands and the detail in your face. How can we feature both?"

Then he did this. 
Kapores is an ancient tradition, controversial even within the Orthodox community, of slaughtering a chicken on the eve of Yom Kippur as a symbolic proxy for one's sin. The chickens are then cooked and given to the poor. It's an admittedly violent scene. But even if I were inclined to judge, I think the chicken sandwich I had for lunch would disqualify me as a critic. 
A bit of that old-time, unpracticed masculinity spotted on Eastern Parkway. Appropriately on the bed of a truck, doin' work.
Oncoming traffic. So annoying.
He wanted to be a princess, and I thought it was a little too early to be imposing gender."
I think somebody's following us.
Not sure if two cooler dudes have ever shared a blanket.
First, the man on the right explained his intentions of being a gender-bending rockstar. The man on the left listened quietly as his friend held the spotlight, then said, in a quiet voice: I'm a card-carrying Native American and the Twilight series was based on the legends of my family."  BOOM.
This man had a charming way of personifying his tigerpants. As in, I saw him in a window, I fell in love with him, and I knew I had to get him."
Where'd you grow up?"
All over."
My favorite thing about her is how consistent she's been."
And that's my answer too.  For 56 years he has been amazingly supportive of everything I've wished to do."
This girl was smart as a whip.  When I walked by, she was MOVING to the music—hands up, head nodding, shoulders swinging.  I really wanted to take her photo, so I walked up to the nearest adult and asked: Does she belong to you?

Suddenly, the music stopped, and I heard: I BELONG TO MYSELF.
Seen on the Upper East Side
This is the Mayan Holy Man (plus translator) referenced in the previous post. I think he was speaking all day, so I only caught a portion of his message, but here's what I heard:

When the Mayans cut down a tree, they pray not only to the guardians of the tree, but to the guardians of the animals that sought shelter in that tree. Now, more than ever, we need to pray to the guardians of nature. The Spaniards misunderstood these ceremonies and called us polytheistic. This was a mistranslation. But we believe that nature must be guarded. Sixty years ago my grandmother told me that we would have to pay to drink water. And now this is coming true. We are buying water, and we are eating chickens that are so filled with chemicals that they are killed 20 days after they hatch. These are not natural animals. Now more than ever, nature must be guarded. 
I was walking through Central Park yesterday when I heard a loud, driving, constant drum beat. It was coming from a distant hill, upon which a small circle of people had gathered around a dancing group of Native Americans. The dance, I learned, was part of a sendoff ceremony"  for a modern Mayan prophet who'd stopped in New York as part of a speaking tour.
His horses were repossessed, but his swagger had been paid in full.
Goodnight
Ladies not yet rich but very well off will also be considered. 
Yesterday I dropped into a pet store called Fauna on the Upper West Side, because it had a sign saying Exotic Birds"  and I thought: Sweet! Free zoo."  Indeed, it had a small bird habitat with all sorts of awesome birds.
I got into a conversation with Daniel, the store's owner, about the bonding abilities of these animals. I looked at their small heads, imagined their small brains, and said: These things probably could care less about humans."
In response, Daniel opened the cage of a nearby parrot. The parrot instantly darted out, landed on Daniel's shoulder, and started frantically nuzzling against his face. It was quite a demonstration. What amazing creatures. 
A little camera shyness on the Upper East Side.
Seen at Lincoln Center
One of his coworkers was catcalling from across the street. He looked over, and shouted: They don't call me Black Diamond for nothing."
I'm trying to overwhelm people with flowers before the summer ends. 
She said: He's really sweet and sensitive."
He looked up at the sky and said: Oh God."
What's your greatest struggle right now?"
Just figuring out what I want to do. Cause it ain't this. 
Seen in Washington Square Park.
I wandered into the lobby of a nursing home on the Upper West Side, and discovered this man, who was on his way to deliver a yellow bear to his wife. I visit her everyday,"  he said. Even when the mind is gone, the heart shows through."
Today in Epic Chess Matchups:
Seen on 5th Avenue.
Seen in Central Park.
We're learning about angles."
I asked her to tell me her favorite thing about her dad, and she said: When the confetti came down!"
Dad noticed me looking confused, and said: We just came back from a concert by her favorite band. And she's not going to talk about anything else right now."
Of course, I prompted him by suggesting a poem entitled Humans of New York:"
those zombies are maskedkonkrete jungle burnsI like to dabblein such varied colors
eyes are blindingwhen stares go for daysunbecoming dreamersare likely to lose it when trains run late
so it is to rambleand forget our friend timestartled over letting gomadness in the big city
The residents of the Upper East Side seem to specialize in graceful aging. Walk along the eastern edge of Central Park on a beautiful fall day, and it can almost seem like a parade of the world's coolest grandparents.
Superman busted ordering from the Kid's Menu.
Because she doesn't like princesses.
What's your greatest struggle?"
My sister and I are nearly 60. My mother is 83. We're not destitute or anything, but we don't really have a stash. So there's not really room for anything to go wrong. And all of us are aging, so I have plenty to worry about. I've really followed my whims in life, which has been great. But while my friends were buying houses, I was travelling the world and having experiences. It's been great, and I've seen a lot. But now I'm seeing the benefits of the other road."
Seen in Williamsburg, Brooklyn
Fear of Heights

Nine out of ten times, when a woman looks this put together,"  she doesn't mind being photographed. She often even comes with a prepackaged pose. So when this woman claimed to be extremely camera shy, I assumed she was just putting on a show of humility. 
Turns out, however, she was telling the truth. She was indeed charmingly bashful. She couldn't even bring herself to look at the camera. And I could hear the keys jingling in her pocket from across the street.
I asked their story and the woman answered, enthusiastically: We're Ely and Smacky!"
LIVE from the 47th Street YMCA:
I turned 80 in July."
A snake is someone who cuts you off right before you do a trick.  Mostly we're a family out here and we respect each other, but there's plenty of snakes."
I came from Greece 52 years ago."
Do you miss it?"
I did for the first 15 years, when my mother was still alive. Before she died, that's where my mind was. Afterwards, New York became my home."
BREAKING: Hordes of trained pigeons unleashed by the bottled water industry.
An email just popped up in my inbox. The subject was Hipster Cop,"  and it included this attachment. Thanks to Zach Stone.
Not sure he was quite ready.
Probable Warlock hands spotted on Upper West Side.
One advantage of being in a relationship is that you can sleep anywhere.
They were playing a game of fetch. I watched him throw the stick three or four times, just to be sure.
She'll grow into it.
I tend to find things that fit together. I don't mean in stores. I found this jacket in a barn."
That's how he rolls.
We just got married at Burning Man!"
Seen in Chinatown
Mommy's a fighter princess."
I leaned down and asked this man for his photograph, but there was no reply. His caretaker was sitting nearby. She smiled and said: I'm the one you need to ask."
Oh,"  I answered. He looks wonderful."
She said, fondly: That's how I like him to look."
Mama gonna put you to sleep.
If you see this garage, be quiet. Because a man lives above it who screams when woken up. 
I was born in an orphanage. So I didn't have too many options."
If you had known what it was like, would you still have gone?"
I think so."
Seen in Union Square.
I don't got no computer, no iPhone, no dishwasher, no microwave, no nothing."
They were in a big hurry, but mom agreed to quickly pause for a photo. I often feel that, even if it's not convenient, many people will agree to be photographed out of a sense of obligation toward Art.
What's your favorite thing about your sister?"
I don't know yet."
Remember how exciting it was to win a fish at the fair? Also kind of sad the next day when it dies. 
Sorry, but I had to share what I'm looking at right now.
Sometimes you're the Cook, sometimes you're the Cannoli.
Give a dollar, get a blessing."
Let's hope they don't see a squirrel.
Seen at Lincoln Center
I run a website to help people who have recently been diagnosed with HIV."
The Peacocks
Nice guys finish last.
Seen at Lincoln Center.
Just a couple of people being unintentionally adorable on the subway.
Each one of those stripes is about a foot tall.
Seen at Lincoln Center 
This guy put a smile on my face. I asked him if he was in town for Fashion Week, and he said: I don't really like fashion. I do computer stuff."
Yesterday a very nervous girl stopped me on Broadway. I always tell my boyfriend how much I love him,"  she said, but he never believes me. I was hoping you could help me send him a message."
On the blog?"  I asked.
She hesitated, then answered: Yes."

I told her I couldn't do it. I'll take your photo and email it to you,"  I said, but I can't share it."  I explained to her that I have a hard rule about not photographing people who stop me on the street otherwise the requests would quickly become unmanageable.

In addition to this, I get so many emails from very young couples asking me to document their Greatest Of All Loves. They normally express their relationships in cinematic terms, saying things like: It took me 15 years, but I finally found my soulmate."  Or Even though we go to different high schools, the strength of our love has allowed us to persevere through the hardship. Please take our photo."

I think I join the rest of the adult community in a little eye rolling, along the lines of: Yeah, yeah, been there. Don't worry the hormones will level off."  But while editing the girl's photo, I realized that I've probably been a bit too dismissive of these sentiments. Young love is a huge part of life. Sometimes it evolves into something steadier and longer lasting more often it doesn't. But few things have the power to consume us so completely.

So here's my tribute to that experience. To the recipient of this message: Your girlfriend really, really loves you.
Being a firefighter: good pay, great benefits.

I saw these guys on a collision course and started praying it would happen.
True Colors

:

I was going to work on my next supermarket pic, but then  and I got distracted.
(1.5 hours)

This is awesome.
Superhero in Training

Seen at Lincoln Center.
Mixed Signals
I'm an artist, and dressing is my art. 

Yesterday Ari from Advanced Style brought 15 elderly"  women with him to Lincoln Center Plaza, and held a flash fashion show."  The women ranged from 60 to 95 years old, and strutted down an imaginary runway while music blared from a portable radio. It was awesome.

But the real fun began when security moved in and tried to break the whole thing up. These ladies had long past the age of being ordered around, and weren't taking any crap. My favorite moment involved this 95 year old woman chest-bumping a 300 lb security guard.

See the fashion show here: 
Seen at Lincoln Center.

I'm the Sultan of Wisconsin."
Dear HONY,
I just saw a fully armored man on horseback propose to a girl who was picnicking in Prospect Park. She said yes."
Rosalind Lilly

THIS JUST IN: Baby reaches for puppies at Lincoln Center.
New generation of samurai not inspiring quite as much fear in the hearts of their enemies.
One day really soon, I'm hoping to map out the places homeless people stay. Then get a whole group of skaters to deliver bags filled with necessities."

I asked their Mom if they got along, she said: Like two peas in a pod."
At first I was disappointed because the photo came out a little fuzzy, then I thought: Who cares, the dress looks like an acid trip anyway."
Bet these two could make a killing in the Girl Scout Cookie business.
The Winged Unicorn
This discarded shoe makes for quite a little poem.
I study Oriental Medicine."
‎They're normal Levi's. I just washed them for 30 years and sewed an $8 boa onto them.
The scar on my forehead looks really bad in that picture."
I didn't even notice."
It's always the first thing I notice."
I roam the streets of New York looking for the most stylish and creative older folks. Respect your elders and let these ladies and gents teach you a thing or two about living life to the fullest. 

Check out Ari's blog:
:

A photographer named Mo Gelber took this photo outside of the Manhattan Criminal Court a few weeks ago, and is looking for the couple in the photo.


UPDATE: The couple in the photo were located as a result of the HONY post. Man on the left is a graffiti artist. Woman on the right was serving as his lookout. She describes their relationship as a whirlwind summertime romance."  The woman is refusing to sign a release form until the man gets out of Rikers. Photographer Mo Gelder needs the release because he is the front-runner in Canon's Imagin8tion contest with Ron Howard. If he wins, a short film will be made based on the photograph. Currently, Mr. Gelder is fielding several interview requests. (Understandably. What a story, and what a photograph! One of the best candid photos I've ever seen.) Because of Gelder's photograph, Canon's contest is getting tons of publicity. (HONY is getting it's fair share as well. Thanks Mo!) I've got to imagine that Canon is trying to figure out a way to include Mr. Gelder in their plans, with or without a release! I'll keep everyone updated on their decision.
Garth Vader humiliates his father by shunning the throne and pursuing a fashion career.
He had a large, gold-plated coat of arms pinned prominently to his lapel the meaning of which he refused to disclose. He also threw up a bizarre three-fingered salute. I'm not going to say conclusively that he's a reptilian invader cloaked in human form. But where there's smoke, there's fire.
Seen at Lincoln Center

Seen on 4th Street.
Seen in SoHo.
Sorry, it's tough to talk. My mouth is really dry cause I just smoked."
A photographer named Mo Gelber took this photo outside of the Manhattan Criminal Court a few weeks ago, and is looking for the couple in the photo.
It can be difficult to find someone in a crowd.
Found a discarded cracked mirror on a Williamsburg sidewalk. Fun ensued.
Seen on Fulton Street, Brooklyn.
All you need is a hand to hold and a puddle to stomp.
 
Seen on 14th Street.
I love finding flares of originality, no matter how small.
I make music inspired by the writings of Vladimir Nabokov."
Everyone should save their brightest colors for the grayest days.
 
Crown Heights, Brooklyn
Earlier today, shoppers in Chinatown were treated to the strange sight of a photographer chasing this woman down the middle of Canal Street.
I'm a mathematician and a painter, and this is a very special lady. When I lived in Sarasota, she and her husband really encouraged my work. They took me to poetry readings and introduced me to the art scene. Now she is visiting New York to attend the opening of my show."
Judging by his face, he most likely just inked an 8-figure record deal.
Seen at the West Indian Day Parade.
Not sure if this picture covers ALL the themes of the West Indian Day Parade, but it sure covers a lot of them.
Seen at the West Indian Day Parade.
Seen in East Village.
Seen on 6th Avenue.
Seen in SoHo.
Seen in Washington Square.
If she can't have a balloon, nobody gets a balloon.
Spreading Her Wings
America is a rotten bastard country."
We lived next to each other for 20 years, but just became friends 2 years ago."

I want to design lingerie and footwear."
Seen in the subway.
Little Big Man
An easy way to brighten up a photo is to wait for a cab to pass by.
Seen at the Brooklyn Museum.
I was reading my Kindle on the subway when a small hand suddenly appeared on its screen.
Seen in Crown Heights, Brooklyn.
The Third Eye
Casting Off
Seen in Lower Midtown.
I'm an expert on the past, present, and the probable future based on present energy."
Her name is Marilyn."
The Modern Couple
He got tired of being pushed around.
Seen in West Village.
I like silent films."
I built it on the sidewalk."
Front page of Vogue.com is looking a bit familiar. ;)The fact that these images resonate on a stylish level is, by the author’s own admission, completely accidental: "I don’t pretend to be up-to-date on trends or thoughts on style, I just photograph things that I think are beautiful and I haven’t seen before.'
This girl was impressively versatile. She managed to coldly shut down a few guys inappropriately calling to her from a passing car, then thirty seconds later, respond quite warmly when I asked for a photograph.
 
Seen in East Village.
Seen in Crown Heights, Brooklyn.
He said No." She said Yes." He said Oh."  
I rode horses growing up in the Bronx. The Bronx actually has more parkland in relation to its size than any other city in the United States."
BREAKING: Biker gangs terrorize Midtown.
At first I noticed their matching hats, but then it started to rain and a nice little moment developed.
The Storm Bringer
Seen on the subway.
Seen in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn.
While I was lining up the shot, an older man walked by, smiled, and said: If he breaks his leg, it's your fault."
omg
May I have this dance?
 
My story? Just takin' it easy."
The Claw
It's a Ribbit!"
The endangered Homocornia Glamoralis spotted in Midtown.
I was photographing in Midtown last night when I came across an event called The Glitter Ball."  I went inside for five minutes and came out with this picture.
The Escort
Seen in Midtown
Seen in Union Square
I'm trying to keep my energy close to the Earth."
Seen in Union Square.
Cheeeeeeeeessee!"
It seems that a lot of people my age try to be interesting by having problems or starting conflicts. I'd rather be interesting because I created something beautiful."
These two were riding on one of the rear subway cars when they decided to make a journey to the very front car. (Which, as every expert knows, provides the best window view.) So at every stop, Dad would scoop the boy up, run outside, and advance one car further.
Seen in Union Square
Distribution of Wealth
‎In November of 42, my unit was building airstrips in Scotland when we received an order to pack up our things. They put us on ships in the middle of the night. You couldn't see anything, and they didn't tell us where we were going. When the sun came up, we saw that we were part of a giant convoy. There were hundreds of ships, all across the horizon: cruisers, destroyers, transport ships. It looked just like a movie. Turns out we were headed to Algeria. When we hit the Straight of Gibraltar, all the ships had to come together, which made us vulnerable to air attacks. So suddenly the sky was filled with British fighters giving us cover. Tons of them. When we landed, we built runways so that the Allies could supply their North African operations. I was behind the lines because I was an engineer, but the Germans were hitting us pretty hard in North Africa. I remember all the boys heading toward the front on tanks. Lines and lines of them. They knew it was the real thing this time, so their faces looked pretty grim.
Dear Santa,
Please bring Mom a bike this year.
Different Strokes
Seen in Greenwich Village.
Questionable costume choices contributing to sky-high washout rate among Times Square characters.
One of those rare occasions when Dad is wearing a jacket covered in cartoons, and you aren't embarrassed at all.
He spoke only French, so his female companion was translating for me. And from the dismissive tone of her voice, I really think she was working against me. But using a recently-adopted tactic, I showed him the page on my phone, and he stopped walking just long enough for me to snag a portrait.
Seen in Midtown.
I was trying to read on the subway, but this was right next to me.
Seen in East Village.
Did you break your arm while riding the skateboard?"
Yeah."
What happened?"
Well, my friend gave me a few hits of acid"
Santa passed through Grand Central on the way to Vegas.
It was made in 1930."
How many were produced?"
I could tell you, but I'd be lying to you."
Seen at Lincoln Center.
 marks the world's first viral event, a très chic picnic imported from Paris and now taking hold in outdoor landmark public spaces in 22 cities across 5 continents. Taking the flash mob concept to a refined and mysterious level, these romantic outdoor epicurean feasts are organized entirely via word of mouth and social media, attended annually by thousands of people in cities around the world  At the last minute, the location is given to thousands of friends and acquaintances who have been patiently waiting to learn the "Dîner en Blanc's' secret place. Thousands of people, dressed all in white, and conducting themselves with the greatest decorum, elegance, and etiquette, all meet for a mass 'chic picnic' in a public space."
Field of Dreams
My father was in the service, but he passed away. When I enlisted, I got this tattoo to remind me to carry on his good name."
I once had a meeting with the Vice President of Columbia records. That's how far I got. But I was two hours late. I could tell from the look on his face that I'd really fucked up. You want some advice? If you ever meet with the Vice President of Columbia Records, don't be two hours late."
I spilled a little paint on them accidentally, then I kinda liked how it looked so I kept on going."
Seen on Governor's Island
Me: Are you married?" Man: No, we're lovers." [laughter]Woman: He wasn't joking."
I think the most talented artists are those who are able to express their point of view through their work. I can look at a dancer and immediately tell if they are emotionally tuned to the music, or if they are just technically proficient. For a dancer to be excellent, there needs to be joy."
 
Seen in Jamaica, Queens.
The Eid Prayer
Seen on Governor's Island.
Seen in Jamaica, Queens.
Seen on Governor's Island.
End of Ramadan. Live from Jamaica, Queens.
We're heading to the Whitney."
What's happening at the Whitney tonight?"
art."
I'm no expert, but it seems the best way to get money from tourists would be to not scare the hell out of them.
My best friend was a photographer named Diane  Arbus."
I know Arbus. She's a legend."
Well, she wasn't a legend back then. She was my friend."
We're both kinda shy."
I am so excited right now!"
These two were camping out in Central Park last night. From the looks on their faces, I bet you can tell whose idea it was.
Your standards change as you grow older. You learn to say: "Even though this may not be my cup of tea, there's something in it for me.'"
My name is X.  Like the letter "X.'"
And what's your story?"
Well, I just bought some cat litter.  Now I'm heading home."

*Stay tuned to HONY for more hard-hitting journalism.
As I cowered beneath an awning, he skated past with a mocking smile.
Seen in Grand Central Station.
I have an idea for an underwater play."
Can I take a photo with the motorcycle?"
Is it yours?"
Nope."
Even when they weren't near each other, it was obvious they were together.
Last night, a man dancing wildly in the Times Square subway station gave zero shits about what the other people were thinking.
‎You're the most colorful person I've seen all day.Not many of us survived the apocalypse."
The average person is not a chess expert. So whenever a crowd is gathered around a game, it often means a visually-interesting matchup.
Pragmatic Spiderman launches crimefighting career by clearing jaywalkers from a busy intersection.
Someone recently made some unauthorized improvements on a Prince St store front.
Model of Health
Something tells me this man graduates every single day.
Long Day
‎I grew up in South Africa, then I moved to Thailand for a few years, now I'm here working as a personal chef.Is there a certain type of food that you specialize in?" French cuisine. With a South African and Asian twist."
I kept asking where they were from, and they kept answering everywhere."  I kept pressing, and finally the mom answered, going down the line from left to right: London, Gabon, France, and London." But you're a family?"  I asked.Yes,"  she answered.I decided not to try and unravel the details.
What's your name?" Casino." What's your birth name?" Casino."
At 5:30, some guy slapped an undercover cop in the Spring Street subway station.

At 5:33, this happened.
I kinda wanna hold hands with these two and walk around all day.
Seen in Union Square subway station.
Dad was guarding the gate to this court like Cerberus. He ended up being a HONY follower, and I still barely got in.
‎I've got three bullets in my leg from Vietnam.You got shot three times?" I got shot five times. Three are still in there." After I took the photograph, he walked away a few steps, then came back: If anyone wants to know,"  he said, my name is Staff Sergeant Frank Melillo."
Reading to each other"  was a common activity in the 1800's and early 1900's, especially among couples. But it's rare enough today to be worthy of documentation.
These two flowers may look the same. But one stood obediently for the photo, while the other led Dad on a high-speed chase around the playground.
 
Gaga's lesser known younger brother.
I believe in a little bit of everything."
Has anyone seen her car keys?
Filmmakers Mike and Lori are working on a project called America for President. They are transporting a replica of the President's desk around the country, inviting Americans to sit down and articulate their vision for the next four years. If you were sitting in Mike and Lori's Presidential desk, what would some of your ideas be?
In nature news the residents of 35 Cornelia Street are holding vigil over a baby bird that has fallen from its nest, injuring its right wing. The amateur medical community at 35 Cornelia remains cautiously optimistic.A full recovery is expected,"  reports one resident. The wing is being exercised everyday, and the mother comes down from the nest to deliver food. Should be flying in no time. 
Until the prognosis is fulfilled, the building's Russian Wolfhound, Rhett, is being kept on a short leash.
I've been growing them for 17 years. But it's actually my second set of dreads. My ex-girlfriend cut off my first." With or without your permission?" without."
Seen on the subway.
Sex and the City
Apparently I'm kinda scary.
Seen at Union Square Farmer's Market.
World Champion of subway naps.
What kind of art do you make?" I like lines. Lots of lines."
She goes to Columbia University, where she is working on a major, three minors, and is on the leadership committee  of about 15 clubs."  She hopes to one day be a lawyer helping recent immigrants.

And she wasn't bragging.  I just ask a lot of questions.
Seen in Washington Heights
A little help from Mother Nature.
I asked the little guy on the right to name his favorite thing about his nanny.He said: Batman." I said, I know you like Batman. But what's your favorite thing about your nanny?" He said: Batman."
Seen in Williamsburg
A girl named Bean.
Do you mind if I take your photo? I like your clothes." I'll sell them to you right now." Well, I don't know about that." We can switch clothes in the park." I'm not sure I'd look as good in them."
Dear HONY,I needed a metro card to get to work, but my credit card was not working in any of the machines. I went into a convenience store and asked if I could purchase anyone's food/drink in exchange for cash, and one man took me up on it. So I got $2.25.
But when I went down to the machine, I found that I was still a quarter short. I went into a Starbucks and asked 15 people if I could buy their coffee. Nobody answered. At this point I was getting frantic. I desperately approached a coffee cart vendor, and explained my situation.The man smiles and says, Here, take a dollar." Thanks,"  I told him, but I only need a quarter. My credit card works everywhere except the subway. But thank you." Wait,"  he told me. Since you have no money, take $10. You can pay me back tomorrow, or not at all. It's not a big deal." This guy gave me $11 even though I've never met the guy, seen him before, or bought even a coffee from the cart and after I've been searching for 25 cents for almost an hour. You can find him right outside the Bowling Green 4/5 stop. Near the Starbucks. He works until Noon.Mark
My son got me play tickets for my birthday, so we're on our way to the theatre."
Do you do this a lot?"
yea."
It's kind of dark, so your face is a bit blurry."
Who cares? My legs look fantastic."

Very few people can pull off a beard and a dress this well.
We had to reshoot this a few times.  I wanted to get the ball coming off the bat, but I couldn't stop flinching.
I see this woman almost every time I go to Washington Square Park.  She seems to take a daily lap around the park, stopping at every street performer and doling out a little appreciation.
Family Style
I first noticed the older woman. She was walking down the sidewalk, occasionally stopping to playfully poke someone with her cane. When I asked for her photograph, she broke into a smile and agreed to pose. But when I started speaking with her afterwards, her English was a bit broken and I was having a tough time understanding her. Luckily a young woman came across the street to investigate. This is my grandmother,"  she said.Can you tell me something about her?"  I asked.She's nice to everyone,"  she answered. Everyone loves her. She holds the whole family together."
In many ways, life is more satisfying as an old man. I was too driven when I was young. My father was a very important man. I guess I felt a lot of pressure to live up to his expectations." Is being driven necessarily a bad thing? Isn't there satisfaction in driving toward something? Aren't we wired to hunt?" Well, you may have a point there."
I'm part Taino Arawak, but honestly, a lot of this is just creative expression."
These three were performing a Dominican dance at an NYPD community festival in Washington Heights. When I first found them, only the guy in the middle was wearing a chicken costume. The other two were in plain clothes. They started laughing and pushing him forward to be photographed. I felt a little bad for him. Then, five minutes later, I circled back around. And this is what I found.
 
Seen in Washington Heights
Seen in Union Square.
This dragon wand appears to have been formed naturally. I don't think it was carved or shaped in any way. Convinced of it's magical powers, I tried to buy it off the man. But he wouldn't sell.
Quite the Team
You have to be very careful about assuming anyone in New York is wearing a costume, so I asked very delicately. In this instance, however, they were indeed going to a play.
Seen in East Village
They were made in France in the 1950's. This actually belonged to my grandfather. When I moved to America, I broke it apart and mailed it over."
 
Two young friends from Taiwan.
Yesterday I walked up on a rather adorable rescue operation. Having discovered a sickly pigeon, two elderly women were attempting to revive it with a refreshing glass of water. When I came onto the scene, they were arguing over whether to pour the water on top of the pigeon. One of them was insisting that he would like it because it's so hot,"  while the other countered that it would scare the hell out of him."  The argument got pretty heated. They looked to me for a deciding vote, but I refused to pick a side.
Seen in Times Square
The Best Dressed Man in New York
‎My brother and I moved to New York when I was 12 years old. We'd been living with my grandmother in Philadelphia, but she said it was time to go live with my mother. We didn't want to go. When we got off the bus, I remember my brother grabbed my hand and said: "Watch out! The buildings are going to fall on us!' We'd never seen such tall buildings. When he got to my mother's apartment building in Harlem, I was shocked. Most of the doors were open. There were bums lying on the floor of the hall. I remember thinking: 'This can't be where we are going to live!' I think the happiest moment of my life was when I was finally able to move out of Harlem.
Rosie the Riveting
‎Is that a dick in your ear?It's a dick in my ear."
Seen in Washington Square Park.
This man was in a huge hurry, so all we know for sure is that he is a designer,"  originally from France,"  and occasionally enjoys a good frozen cappuccino.
Having grown bored of the exhibits at The Met, this man turned to something more amusing.
I don't think he's a fan of PDA.
I like to have fun, but I'm also a serious man." And what does it mean to be a serious man?" It means to be aware of the world's problems. And to be aware of the consequences that those problems might lead to."
Nothing to It
 
The Staring Contest
 
Seen in The Metropolitan Museum
We’re making a sort of ‘real-life’ Pokemon movie.  In this scene, he’s trying to weaken me with a stick so that he can capture me.
I was walking through Central Park last night around midnight, when I noticed some shadowy, hunched figures wading among the lily pads in Bethesda Fountain. They appeared to be hunting for coins. It was an interesting scene, but it was far too dark to take a photo. An hour later, however, I noticed one of the same guys wading through the fountain in front of The Met. I climbed in with him and asked for a photograph.
Seen on the Upper East Side
Dear HONY,I want to nominate my Uncle Naldo for a portrait. His father left when he was four and he became the man of the house. A Vietnam combat veteran, he worked in warehouses and trucking until he got laid off in the late nineties. After a few years of job-searching and clinical depression, he found peace, purpose, and community working as a doorman on the Upper West Side. He buys bags of dog biscuits for the dozens of dogs from the neighborhood who jerk their walkers to his post, then sit anxiously for a treat. You can find him at 41 west 72nd st, where he works Thursday to Monday, from 4 to Midnight.Thomas Colon
‎My father has Asperger's, so it's always been very difficult to connect with him emotionally. Then a few years ago I was reading Truman Capote's "Other Voices, Other Rooms,' and there's this scene where the main character prays to know his father. And when he's done praying, the chapter ends: 'And in this moment, like a swift intake of breath, the rain came.'
Planning their next move.
Where are you from?"
Iraq."
Oh wow. What are you doing in the city?"
There are 50 of us here. We are studying social media as part of an exchange program."
In a particularly New York moment, I just barely escaped being spit on by a homeless woman. Then thirty seconds later got shit on by a pigeon.
 
I've won a few acting awards, but as with all art, it's an endless journey." What do you mean?" You never get to the bottom of an art. There's always another layer of depth. Whether that be painting, or acting, or photography. Ten different people could photograph that tree right there, and there would be a different spirit beneath each of those photographs." I think I'll put that as your caption." Oh c'mon. That's nothing new. Everyone knows that." Maybe so. But ten different people could explain that, and it'd be different every time."
Chaotic, yet very carefully pieced together.
 
This all happened within a 5 minute period, on the same Brooklyn-bound subway car:

I noticed a man with an elaborate gold ring, and questioned him about it's origin. It's from Ghana,"  he said.
Cool!"  I replied. Do you have any idea how old it is?"
About 200 years,"  he answered. Excited by this discovery, I asked him if I could photograph the ring. That picture can be found in the top left corner of this post.

The man got off at the next stop. Shortly after he left the car, I recognized another man who I had met a few weeks earlier. I knew that he collected and dealt in African artwork. I walked up to him with the intention of showing off my discovery. Check out this ring,"  I said, showing him the photo on my camera. The guy said it was 200 years old and made in Ghana."  He quickly glanced at the photo.

Bah!"  he said. That's way too shiny to be 200 years old. You want to see something old?"  He opened his briefcase, reached into one of the pockets, and pulled out a bundle of tissue. He unwrapped the tissue, revealing a sort of artifact. That was dug up in Mali,"  he said. Photograph that!"
She's got him covered.
This young Israeli girl was travelling with her mother. She seemed unsure about taking a photo, but her mom grabbed the shopping bags from her and started pushing her forward.
Hurry up."
I've been occupying for a couple days now."

I'm a sculptor." What kind of sculptures do you make?" Well, it's a visual art. I'm not exactly going to be able to use words to transfer what's in my head to your head."
What are you painting?"
I don't know. I put down some green. Then I put some red on top of it."
What's your favorite thing about your dad?"
When he takes me to the bus terminal to see the buses."
Emerging Life
Why are you dancing?" I just saw my wife across the street."
Just finished watching a man write this in Washington Square Park. It was 100% freehand.
I make clothes that remind me of childhood."
Swedish student of motion graphics.  With guest appearance by man who has yet to find satisfaction.
He tried to give me the whole I'm a psychotherapist and I have a patient waiting upstairs"  bit. Like I haven't heard that one 1000 times before.
 
I'm working on a floor plan. I need to move some things around." Oh. Is it for your house?" No." Someone else's house?" No. It's for Bergdorf Goodman." Oh."
16 years."
Found this man on Madison Avenue. He told me he was a singer from Russia. He then asked me how to pose, and I said: Any way you want to."

So he started walking right towards me.
Seen on the Lower East Side
Twenty two years ago, I got hit by a 5 train. I was on a lot of dope then. Now I've got a metal rod in my leg. It hurts like hell. That's why I dance so much to forget about it for a few seconds."
Seen in Union Square
Before every move, the boy would put his hand on a piece, and the man would shake his head yes"  or no."
Entrepreneurial twin sisters set up a handmade jewelry stand at Union Square. They look cute now, but wait until it's time to split the money and one of them decides she did the most work.
A Parisian couple in Williamsburg
Stop and Frisk
A colorful pair in Flushing, Queens.
Girl With Big Heart
Seen in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn.
:

Back Story: With me being only 16, my parents wanted me to make sure I knew how to get around NYC by myself. To help elevate their fears, my whole family and I, along with our god-parents, went to NYC for the day.
We got to the subway gates and my MTA card would only let in 4 people, this would exclude our god-parents. So the lady to the left actually let us use her MTA card for the both of them.
Even though it was only $5, it’s just small gestures like this that makes me feel good in a world full of hate and racism. Although I’m probably getting a bit sentimental. 
If anyone know who she is, tell her thank you from me (Billy). We saw her on Sunday, July 22, 2012 on the ACE downtown platform at Penn Station around 9-10AM.

I stumbled upon a National Treasure yesterday.I was walking down 3rd Avenue when I noticed an old man in a wheelchair. He was being pushed by a caretaker. Despite his physical condition, he had dressed with extreme care. He wore an outlandish yellow outfit. Everything about him was yellow, from his shades to his socks. Intrigued by his appearance, I bent down and asked for a photograph. He silently nodded approval.After I'd taken his photograph, his caretaker offered a formal introduction: This is Banana George,"  she said, the world's oldest barefoot waterskier. He's 97 now. When he was 92, he set the world record for the oldest person to waterski barefoot. Banana George didn't even begin waterskiing until he was 40. But it soon became his passion. So much so that he began doing shows at Cypress Gardens hopping jumps and riding with women on his shoulders. In the course of his career, he's broken his back 4 times. He's also broken his ankle, knee, and eleven ribs. Banana George waterskied until the last possible moment. I've seen footage of a very old George being pulled through the water in a wheelchair-on-skis, smiling like a madman.Here you can see a short video I found of Banana George skiing on his 90th birthday: Banana George is a testament to loving life, and he deserves to be celebrated. I discovered that his family set up a fan page for him. It only has 835 people so far. Let's show George how much we love his spirit, and join his fan group: 
I'm a choreographer, so images are very important to me."
He sent me a follow-up email to clarify that the haircut is known as a cheerio bowl."
Seen in Flushing, Queens.
A couple weeks ago, I posted this photo with this caption: He barely spoke any English. But I did gather that he'd recently moved from Cuba, and had come to America for "La Libertad.'After seeing the post, the man sought the services of a translator in order to fully express his story. Here is the version that showed up my inbox today:This is my story and it’s real. I was born in the humble town of Central Guatemala on the Island of Cuba after Castro's revolutionary triumph. I have been living in exile in the USA for the past 3 years. I come from a very beautiful and united family. I miss and love my family immensely. I never stop thinking about them, not even for an instant. Despite living here in America I still worry about their well-being and day-to-day necessities.My mother, who is the most precious person in my world, is battling cancer. Not being able to see her face-to-face and tell her how much I love her deeply hurts me. Due to Castro's cruel dictatorship, however, living in America means that my entry into Cuba is not permitted. As such, it’s not possible for me to see my mother, to hug her, and to tell her how much I miss her. I am afraid that I may never see my mother again.Being a professional sportsman gave me the opportunity to represent Cuba in a workshop in Venezuela named ‘Barrio Adentro Deportivo’, which is one of the methods used by the Cuban regime to portray Castro's dictatorship as benevolent. Many of us are ‘selected’ to go abroad using coercion, deceit and threats. If you refuse to go, the regime degrades your economic and social status. Some Cubans opt to follow this charade and use it as a means to improve their social and financial status. Others, like me, decide to use it as a gateway and potential escape to a better life.Migrating to a new country has been a very difficult experience, as it has been for many other Cubans who, like me, made the decision to leave Cuba to be embraced by this and other nations. These adopting countries have given many of us their support and solidarity because they are aware of the suffering we have experienced in leaving behind our families, friends, culture and, often, our hearts. Many of us have risked our lives fleeing through the borders of several nations in search of liberty. It is shameful and painful, but nevertheless true, that many Cubans have to face such calamities in order to achieve a right that The Creator has given to all humanity: the right to freedom."
I think that, between the three of them, all of the colors in the crayon box have been covered.
After a couple of years of doing this, I think I've developed a pretty keen intuition for incoming adorableness.
I run a lifestyle management company in Dallas." So what's the charm of Dallas?" It's a young city, so it's a great place to start something. Everything in New York or LA has been done 20 times over."
Seen in Flushing, Queens
I'm an illustrator. You've seen my work."
I had just finished a close-up of her head wrap when I snapped out of my tunnel vision and noticed she went quite well with her surroundings.
Her significant other was lobbying hard for me to take a solo portrait of her. She's one of the most beautiful women in the world,"  he said.When I agreed, she said: You don't have to. He can be a little pushy at times."  But I didn't mind. I thought it was admirable for him to be pushy about the beauty of his partner.
Guy on the far right decided he'd try a pet first and see how that goes
Take it quick. I'm playing hooky."
‎I've been a widow for five years now. And I guess I'm worried that men look at me, and how I dress, and just don't "get it.' My late husband 'got it,' of course. I'd love to meet someone, but I'm not going to change anything about myself to do it.


You're only on HONY once.
His friends said: Make sure everyone knows that he tells underage kids where they can get their nipples pierced."
I thought she looked exceptional.
Seen in Washington Square Park
I gave him a dollar because he was the only guy on the street singing Christmas carols in July.
It is said that shooting from a low angle makes your subject seem more powerful, so here's an inadvertent tribute to The Working Man.
I grew up on a farm. I'm talking chickens, cucumbers, and pickin' potatoes."


So what inspires you?" Colors, flowers, and picnics."
The Block Party
People try to buy it off my head."
I think New York has more people trying to turn air into money than any other city in the world.
Though they were from Texas and New Jersey, they were speaking in very measured English accents. Though the Green MM is entitled to it's own opinion, I do not condone making faces behind people's backs.
My wife has a wonderful heart."
And he gave me four beautiful children."

So what's your story?"
I'm just an old lady."
Oh c'mon."
I used to be head of the collections department for National Cash Register, but they're long gone now."
Hell on Wheels
John Lloyd Young won a Tony and a Grammy for his portrayal of Frankie Valli in Jersey Boys. He's back in town for three months, guest starring in his old role. After seeing the show last week, I fired off an email hoping to get a photograph. He's doing eight shows a week, but agreed to meet me this afternoon before he went into the August Wilson theater.John spent the few minutes we had together talking about HONY, which really caught me off guard. I wasn't sure he'd even had the chance to look at the blog, and here he is expressing a very detailed appreciation. He barely left me time to tell him how much I loved his performance.Anyway, John Lloyd Young: Tony winner, Grammy winner, really nice dude. If you haven't seen him in Jersey Boys you're really missing out.
I saw these two through the window of a West Village cafe, and had to try for their photograph. I was a little nervous about how they'd react to my interrupting their dinner. But I walked up to their table, and before I even had the chance to open my mouth, the man smiled and put his hand on my shoulder. I knew I'd be leaving with a portrait.
If we were gonna take this picture, we were gonna do it her way.
Mark Twain still coasting off those Huck Finn royalties.
Caught these two in Washington Heights on Friday, right before the sky opened up.  I think the little one had just graduated from Kindergarten.
Hurry up, he's heavy."
People pull their kids away from me on the train, then sit them next to the pedophile in a suit."
 
Duct-taped to the handlebars is an internal car CD player, complete with touchscreen. Two wires run along the body of the bike. One of them connects the CD Player to a power source which happens to be a full sized car battery. The other wire leads to two huge speakers sitting in the bike's rear basket. A stuffed panda and teddy bear complete the set-up.It came to me in a dream,"  he says. Am I going to be famous?"
 
This woman was wearing an interesting hat made of feathers, while tending a jewelry stand on Bedford Ave. When I asked for her photo, she said: I don't really feel like posing, but you can take a candid picture if you'd like."  The street was pretty crowded, so I didn't think I was going to be able get a good shot. But then I looked down at her table. On her business card, it says: Jewels are reliquaries of energy and truth. They are tools, friends, and guides. Each jewel is distinctively named and powerfully charged to reflect it's unique identity and given path."
 
The Big Brother
His friends are off to the right shouting: You ain't shit!"
Not sure who's wining, but I think I know who's losing.
Seen in Washington Heights
Hold Onto Your Hat

Check out her blog here:
I found a girl wearing a shirt made of pants, so I didn't think my day could get much better. But then she did this.
His business card was emblazoned with: Enjoy your life, because it is."
I had just boarded an 86th Street Crosstown bus today when the driver got on the intercom and declared we were on the Party Bus."  During the 10 minutes I was on the bus, he told five jokes over the intercom, made everyone smile at the person to their left, and conducted a guessing game involving three-letter body parts. On two separate occasions he made everyone on the bus sing Happy Birthday in honor of passengers who had birthdays coming up in the next couple weeks or so."
Seen on 5th Avenue.
Unbeknownst to billions of mortals around the world, the final battle for the Universe was going down last night in Washington Square Park.


I found this man standing near a fruit stand on the corner of 14th St and 7th Avenue. I assumed he was waiting for someone. I thought he looked awesome so I asked him for a photograph. He agreed, so I took a few quick shots and continued walking down the sidewalk. As I walked away, I scrolled through the photographs, and decided that they weren't so great. So I went back for another try. When I found the man again, he was stacking fruit. Turns out he owned the fruit stand, making him the best-dressed fruit vendor in the city.He explained that he was from Turkey, was studying International Business at Baruch College, and sold fruit to cover his expenses.





This man was from Israel and had a very thick accent, so he was a little difficult to understand. He was standing alone when I found him, but he kept telling me he wanted to take a picture with his bike. I couldn't see a bike anywhere, so I kept asking him to repeat himself. My bike,"  he said, my bike. Just when I was about to give up, his bike walked up.
When I took this photograph, I was 100% convinced that I'd discovered a girl having a passionate conversation with a pile of luggage. Much to my disappointment, there ended up being some sort of recording device on top of the pile.
The Street Performer
Something tells me that he's not going to be small for long.
Can you pick me up a hotdog?"
Seen in Washington Square Park
The Day's Catch
 
The best part of this photo?
He was wearing a pair of Reeboks.

My girlfriend took this shot.  I loved it so much that I briefly considered asking if I could pretend I took it.  Shameless.

Sisters?"
Partners."
That dog has seen a lot.
Game doesn't age.
She'd been waiting all day for a chance to vogue.
My life would be a lot easier if everyone had a prearranged go to"  pose.

I asked her about the leaves in her hat. She answered in a thick Russian accent: The smell of these leaves make high blood pressure low."
Some art costs an arm and a leg. Some art is an arm and a leg.
Where the magic happens.
‎I love her sensitivity and civilization. I grew up in the Tasmania region of Australia. Back then, it was a very primitive place. She really showed me how to be cultured.
I'm a librarian." What's your favorite part about being a librarian?" the books."
He barely spoke any English. But I did gather that he'd recently moved from Cuba, and had come to America for La Libertad."
 
Life Saving Rope
I'm pretty sure that bag has a face.
 
The Business Meeting
BREAKING: Cold-blooded, sharp-toothed, flesh-munching reptiles spotted in Central Park.
Just a couple of statues in Central Park.
Ready for Takeoff
Just to let you know, I'm out here promoting my company. I know you wanted my photo because you thought I was a grown ass man sitting around with a puppet."
Just Fixin' Her Melon
Seen on the Upper East Side.
Can we do a close-up shot?"
I don't know about that. Thirty years ago, maybe."
So what's the relationship between you two?"
It'sin progress."
I'm going to need $5 for that photo. This is the seat that Bobby Fischer played in."
Bobby Fischer played at that table?"
Well, this is one of the tables he played at, I think."
Testing Boundaries
Everyone who sees my resume asks me why I drive a cab. Back in Niger, I was a French teacher. But the government stopped paying us for a few months, so I decided to quit my job and move to America. That was 12 years ago.
I thought I could teach French here, but I had no idea how hard it would be to get a job without papers. The only place I could find work was a carwash. Back in Niger, kids would wash my car for me. Now all day long I was washing cars for other people. I was very depressed. But I was too embarrassed to go back home. Then one year after I arrived, George Bush got elected and everyone was telling me that it meant very bad things for me. They said the Republicans would make trouble for me. So I was very scared.
 After the car wash, I became a stock boy. Then, a delivery driver. Five years ago, I got my papers and became a citizen, so now I'm able to work at the airport. At nights, and on my days off, I drive a cab. Just this year I graduated from Brooklyn College with a Masters degree in French. I finished third in my class. Now I think I can become a professor."
Three Birds, One Stone
Tumblr founder  was recently asked by the NY Times to name three of his favorite (64 million) Tumblr blogs.
Note to self: send cupcakes.


No differenceby Shel Silverstein
Small as a peanut Big as a giant, We’re all the same size When we turn off the light. Red black or orange, Yellow or white We all look the same When we turn off the light. So maybe the way To make everything right Is for God to just reach out And turn off the light!

Appropriately, his name was Dandy Wellington.
Whenever I see one of my elders fumbling with a new piece of technology, I say: That won't be me. I'm gonna keep up with the younger generation."  Then today I saw a four year old making art on a smart phone, and suddenly I began to doubt myself.
When I first spotted this girl she was crossing the road with her mother, hand-in-hand. Her mother was wearing a bright blue sari. They made quite a pair.But when I asked them for a photo, the mother demurred. She didn't seem distrusting, just shy. She pursed her lips into a smile and started shaking her head slowly. Meanwhile the daughter was nodding her head frantically. She tried to encourage her mother by tugging on her arm. The mother laughed and said: Not me, but you can take a picture of her. The girl immediately assumed a self-satisfied pose.
Keeping a Cool Head
Missed Connection
The Mama Bear
This man really made me smile. Immediately after I asked for his photo, it became apparent that he didn't speak English. This is normally a deal breaker. It is very difficult to convince a stranger to let you take their photo if they cannot understand a word you are saying.But I attempted my usual sign language, which involves pointing at the camera then pointing at the person's face. (All while smiling stupidly.) And this time it worked. The man straightened his shoulders, stared into the lens of the camera, and smiled. I took his portrait and thanked him profusely.I began to walk away when I heard him calling to me. I turned around and saw him tugging at his traditional clothing. Me Pakistan!"  he said. Me Pakistan!"
 
A Coincidence of Color
It's not exactly choreographed. We just feel each other with our eyes and our ears and our hands."
It would appear that this dad has committed to providing his son with cool clothes, SpongeBob ice cream, and a constant soundtrack of techno music.
You should never say: "I'm poor.' Instead you should always say: 'I live in abundance.' Give it a try.  I did it for a whole month once. People were buying me lunches, theatre ticketsit was great."
I'm an abstract artist." Where do you draw your inspiration from?" I'm very interested in prisons, which I think is reflected in my work. I've done a lot of research on prisons, and have even been able to visit a few." What was the most interesting thing you learned in your research?" The fact that many prisons are privatized now they're run by corporations and traded on the stock exchange. It can almost be seen as modern day slavery. When the stock market crashed a few years ago, prison stocks did surprisingly well."
Not sure how well an 80's pop culture reference will go over, but she looks like part of David Bowie's army in Labyrinth.

Seen in East Village
More often than not, the sons of successful merchants are extremely nervous and insecure. It's a phenomenon I saw a lot growing up in Miami Beach. The men who built Miami Beach grew up in the ghettos of the Northeast. They were very motivated and hard-driving, and determined to provide their children with all the luxuries they never had. They didn't realize that providing a child with everything is the quickest way to destroy his confidence in his own abilities. I saw it time and time again. Rich merchants. Insecure children."

*This man did not want to be photographed, so I asked  to imagine what he looked like.
It's S.M.A.S.H today!" What does that mean?" Super Monthly Awesome Spectacular Halloween. It's like Halloween, but once a month!" Oh, is this a sort of group thing?" It was supposed to be, but nobody wanted to do it with us."
 
OPERATION SUGAR LIFT:How to get on HONY:1) Cover every inch of your body in neon glow paint and walk around all day with a basket of puppiesOR2) Adopt this unique cat that I discovered yesterday. Sugar"  is a year old and looks awesome. You will have the coolest looking cat on the block. I almost got her but she is not good with other animals, though she is super sweet"  with humans, an absolute doll. Sugar is currently staying at a short term foster home. Anyone who adopts Sugar and sends a photo, preferably with Sugar wearing an adorable cat costume, will be the subject of a celebratory post. Call Leslie at 212-228-8055.
What's the story here?" Just having fun."
So I was digging around a bit on the guy's blog from the previous photo, and there's some really funny stuff on there. I'm not much of an LOL'er. But I LOL'ed:
The Ricky Martin Effect is a phenomenon that occurs in portrait photography when the victim is forced to stand next to someone who is exceedingly beautiful, handsome, and photogenic. The effect is a certainty if the exceedingly beautify, handsome and photogenic individual is also a big star. Symptoms may include: appearing ten to twenty years older than you are in real life; the illusion of shrinking or being a much smaller person; blotchy, mottled, and wrinkled skin; a look of discomfort, agitation, or intense fear; a resigned air of melancholia; baldness and feelings of hopelessness that might manifest themselves in an exasperated expression that says, What’s the point?

I'm waiting for my psychologist appointment."
Can I write that in the caption?"
I've been in therapy for 30 years. It's not exactly a secret."
These two were the closest thing to a real-life Beavis and Butthead that I've ever seen. They walked up out of nowhere and just started flicking my nipples and saying: Bean dip! Bean dip! Bean dip!"  Then they started snickering.

I started laughing at the absurdity of the situation. Encouraged by my laughter, they tried to wedge their hands into my armpits while shouting: Salmon! Salmon! Salmon!"  This was accompanied by more snickering.

I saw this man from several blocks away because he is nearly seven feet tall.  As he passed, I asked him how he was doing. I'm present,"  he said.  Then he showed me how to meditate like the ocean.
It'd be tough to pull off that shirt without a good pair of jean shorts.
It's French for "army of shadows.'"
And what does that mean to you?"
I was going through a really rough time, and it felt like a whole army was after me. But when I started feeling better, I realized it was nothing but an army of shadows."
This man is from Haiti. I've actually seen him twice. But the first time I couldn't photograph him, because he was doing some deep, standing, palms-up meditation next to a Union Square drum circle.
Some girl asked if I sold drugs.  So I asked her if she sold slaves."
It's almost as difficult to get portraits in mid-July as it is in mid-January. It's been so hot and muggy these last few days, everyone feels like they're walking underwater. So nobody is too anxious to stop and talk to strangers. Seems like every word is a strain. Take the conversation I had with this man, for example:

May I take your photo?"
Whaaaaat?"
May I take your photo?"
Whhhhhy?"
I run a popular website, I take pictures of people."
Juh-Juh-Juh-Just do it. Are you done?"
I'm done."
Bye."

On the steps of the Brooklyn Museum.
Seen in SoHo
Seen in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn.
A French spy attempts to infiltrate the solidly-American waters of the Central Park Boat Pond using a high-tech, steam powered vessel. Luckily the attempt sputtered back to shore. This time.
Dr. Sydney Coleman is known in the world of plastic surgery for perfecting the process of fat grafting, which involves transferring fat from one part of the body to another. He believes the best way to reverse aging is not to tighten excess skin, but to replace fat deposits beneath that skin.I asked him why so many people overdo plastic surgery. Because of how well it worked that very first time,"  he said.

Disaster on the High Seas
The Unconventional Bride
Kevin Carrigan, Creative Director at Calvin Klein, trying on some women's shoes. Two minutes later he started awkwardly pinching my nipples. He gave me permission to post this, though I'm not sure he remembers meeting me or taking this photo.
 
He looked pretty stern in the first few shots, but then finally broke into a smile.

The smile looked best,"  I told him.

That's the look my kids get,"  he said.
:

Just sumfing I drawed yesterday.

Love this interpretation of a HONY photograph.
He looked pretty stern in the first few shots, but then finally broke into a smile.

The smile looked best,"  I told him.

That's the look my kids get,"  he said.
The Buddy System
Hawaiian dance lessons in Central Park featuring nine women in traditional Hawaiian dress, and a couple of guys who don't give no shit what nobody thinks.
Behind the scenes at HONY HQ.
You've got to try anything to get an edge on the competition.
Three Reasons This Guy Is Awesome:1) He cooks French food. For the French consulate.2) He walked by while I was photographing a dead moth on the sidewalk. Let's put the moth on some leaves,"  he suggested, it will look more natural."  I thought he might be joking, so I laughed at the suggestion. I'm serious,"  he said, picking up the moth. I can do it. I cook fine food, so I'm used to handling delicate things." 3) After I took his photograph, the first thing he said was: My mom's going to love this. She lives in Oklahoma."
He describes her as bold."
She describes him as unpredictable."
Popeye the [Adorable] Sailor Man
The Mimic
This man swaggered up, posed for a photo, then swaggered away.
Born to Ride


His eye on his daughter and his hand on a shopping cart.
Get on his wavelength.

Work with what you got.
These two have been on HONY three times because they just won't stop holding hands.
I asked him what he was doing.He said, Just making a scroll."
Portrait of The Artist
We've been together a long, long time." What's your favorite thing about each other?" Well, he may not be able to understand you too well right now, but he's a sweet old bird yet."
The Fireball
Just as I was thinking that I never really see anyone hugging the Free Hug people
This is David. On hot summer days you can find him in the Washington Square Park fountain: not bothering anybody, having a great time, doing his own thing.
He's my godfather!"
What's your favorite thing about him?"
He buys me nice sneakers."
You don't have to be a celebrity to get the celebrity treatment.
This is Israel. He's a neighborhood fixture in the Bedford-Stuyvesant/Clinton Hill area of Brooklyn. For 16 years, he's operated an old-school record store in the basement of 1118 Fulton Street. The music he plays in his store spills out onto the street, and provides a soundtrack for the entire block. He also happens to be one hell of a nice guy, so everybody's always dropping in for a chat. Stop by and see him.
Fulton Street in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn.  9:58 PM
I've been married three times. I was married to my first wife for ten years, but then she gave up the ****y. Then I met my second wife, and we were together for ten years, but then she gave up the ****y. My third marriage is going fine, but I've got rules now: don't lie to me, don't steal from me, and don't give up the ****y."
I love how sometimes a run-down wall can complement a dressed-up man.
Just a guy casually testing out his self-designed, futuristic quadcopter that shoots high-quality aerial video footage.  No big deal.
Coloring Inside the Lines
Yesterday I uncovered and neutralized a legitimate booby-trap in Prospect Park, no doubt saving countless lives. Just don't call me a hero. I did what any extraordinary, heroic citizen would have done in the same situation.
Queen of Jump Rope
Photographed this man a few months ago. Saw him again on the subway last night. I generally try not to photograph anyone twice, but, welllook at him.
I'm part of a clown troupe."

I actually asked her if I could photograph her feet. She said: Only if I can do THIS."
He's holding her like the Stanley Cup.
You may want to hurry before the line gets too long.
 
I'm telling you in real time, this did not seem very impressive at all. Cute, but not impressive. Frozen in a photograph, however, this little guy looks like Bruce Lee.
BREAKING: Giant shoe drives down Park.
Date Night
Not sure I could pack much more Brooklyn into a single picture.
This is one of those too-crazy-to-be-true stories. This morning, on a whim, I decided to check the #HONY tags on Tumblr. I noticed that one of the posts was a photograph of two interesting characters that someone took yesterday in Times Square. I glanced at it briefly, then didn't think much more of it.I closed my laptop, and decided to head to my local YMCA in Bedford Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. (Which incidentally is a long, long way from Times Square. Or any other traditional tourist attractions, for that matter.) I hadn't walked far from my house, when guess who I see on the sidewalk the exact same guys. Wearing the same clothes as yesterday. Drinking Monster Energy drinks.And just when things couldn't get any more perfect, one of them asked, with complete sincerity: Which way to the Statue of Liberty?"

Original Post: 
Just a lil' Eastern Parkway evening romancin'.
Last summer, this man bought my used New Balances off my feet in one of the greatest HONY moments ever.  He said: They are for a Japanese collector.  In Japan, they do not believe there are feet this big."
***PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENT***

Attention all single guys (and girls) interested in meeting women: Log off OKCupid, grab a yoga mat, and head to Prospect Park on Thursday evenings.

Maybe you'll find a soulmate, maybe you'll find increased flexibility and better blood pressure.
Are we there yet?
Pretty sure I just saw a dog walking itself down 8th Ave.
OMG Double Rainbow
Unique headwear spotted in Chelsea.
Not sure what happened here, but it looks like it was tiring.
What color are my eyes?"
Brown. With a little bit of blue."
Are you crazy?"
I don't think so."
They are gray THEN brown THEN blue."
Oh."
What do you want me to do?" You don't have to do anything. I'm going to lay on the ground."
My name is Saada." That's a pretty name." It means "happiness' in Arabic." Oh, are you from the Middle East?" No, I'm East African."
Fifty Shades of Grey, huh?" My wife and I are reading it together."
‎I want to change the world, but I don't know how.Do you mind if I give you a piece of advice?" Sure." Read books by people you disagree with."
I met the man in this photo two summers ago, when I first moved to New York. He told me: New York has the highest washout rate of any city in America. If you come to New York, make sure you come with a reason. Everyone needs a reason to be here."
Seen at Coney Island
Seen in Williamsburg



Found these two old friends on the Upper West Side.
Public transportation provides a safe vantage point from which to stare at people.
The guy said he was working at Jamba Juice while going to school. The girl said she was a mermaid, most of the time."
Chivalry Isn't Dead
Magical Mystery Pants
The Gender Divide
I kept trying to get her to pretend she was taking a picture of me, but this was all I got.
The contestant from District 9 has attained a formidable defensive position. He does, however, have a questionable grip on his weapon.
:

My interpretation of Thanks for letting me use your photo, HONY 

He was my first love. We dated for ten days when we were very young, but my mom would not allow the relationship. She told me: "He's an American, and he's an actor. He'll never make anything of himself.' Then she told me: 'There are millions of men, but I'm your only mother.' She told me to never contact him again, and I listened to her.She took me to Korea for awhile, and when I came back, I never made contact with him again. I never even gave him an explanation. That was over twenty years ago. Then four years ago I Googled him. I saw that he was running a theater company. I wrote him a long letter out of the blue, explaining everything. We'd both been married. We both had kids. But here we are finally together."
One of the great things about New York is that you can be walking your dog down a quiet path near the Hudson River, turn the corner, and suddenly be backstage at a Shakespeare Production.

-

The Hudson Warehouse's Comedy of Errors
FREE, this Thursday through Sunday
Show starts at 6:30 PM
@ Soldiers and Sailors Monument, 89th and Riverside
Right now the bird's wishing he knew how to say, Let's wait for the light."
Anna Karenina by Leo Tolstoy
Did you guys march in the parade today?"
We did. We were supporting our brothers and sisters from our church."
Oh, so neither of you are gay?"
We like to say we're straight, but not narrow."
Like it never even happened.
Looks like he may have swallowed a bit of that Brighton Beach seawater.
Buddha desired nothing. Except for great image quality and a twenty-point autofocus system.
She loves a man in uniform.
About 50 or 60 of us go to soldiers' funerals in case any protestors from that weird church show up."
The Discovery
Do you mind if I take your picture?"
I'm not stopping."
These two were salsa dancing on Brighton Beach, managing to make everyone else feel simultaneously ugly and uncoordinated.
This young woman is:
A) an artist
B) a designer
C) a computer programmer

Answer: C
The Make-Do Waterpark
Testosterone rears its head on an uptown 5 train last night.

I'm straight, but I work at a gay bar so I'm not allowed to wear a shirt."
Seen in Jackson Heights.
For the record, I can't do a handstand OR ride a skateboard.
Closed and Open
Do you mind if I take your photograph?" I'm not really in a picture taking mood." OK, well that's fine. Check out my website later though, it's called Humans of New York." Oh shit!"
Yesterday, only a few hours after posting, Facebook removed the photograph of the topless woman on University Place.
So I want to apologize to everyone [and Facebook] for forgetting to censor the nudity in yesterday's picture. I should have covered the offending area with a highly respected, scholarly piece of Renaissance art.
This guy's name is Matthew Silver. I've seen him around in several parks. After watching him for a total of about thirty minutes, I'd developed the opinion that he was completely insane. Not insane"  as in, Matthew is so insane, he will do anything to make people laugh."  Insane"  as in Matthew is so insane, he probably belongs in an insane asylum." Turns out it was all an act:Matthew-Silver-the-Great-Performer/276288122399733?ref=ts
Kids like this were the reason that no girls liked me in elementary school. Guess you could extend that to middle school and high school as well. #ItGetsBetter
Despite being hesitant about posing in such a public place, she managed to maintain her poise even though a drunk guy was shouting at her from a nearby bench.
Table For Two
So hot you'd drench an infant.
Seen on University Place
I fucked up at pretty much everything. But I've got four kids over 50, so that's something."
Who wants to see a us do a hip hop show?" I do!" You're not enough people." Oh."
I thought if I zoomed in close enough I might be able to capture the meaning of life.
We'll just pretend I didn't see the innocent-looking children ripping those flowers from someone's garden.
If you snap in a baby's face, it can be made to seem like she's looking at the camera.
Little man pulling out all the stops in his quest for the playground altitude record.
Whenever I ask for a group portrait, I've noticed that the agreement of the group hinges on the decision of a single person in this case it was the young lady in the center.
Everyday, hat. Summer, winter, doesn't matter. Everyday, hat."
 
This afternoon, about 50 excited middle schoolers crammed into a crowded subway car.  Only one rider seemed pleased by this situation.
I always think kids brighten up a portrait, so I almost never ask them to stand aside.  But, in this case, I thought mom deserved a standalone.
Seen in Union Square
She was charmingly shy.  I took three shots.  Two with her looking off to the right, then one with her looking off to the left.
I'm Baby Gramps and this is Purple Henry." So what's the relationship between you two?" We have a watercolor relationship." .Oh! So you guys paint watercolors?" No. We're musicians. We have a watercolor relationship." Oh."
Lets hope one of them has his eyes open.
Seen on Broadway

Seen in SoHo
I'm not doing this because I'm down and out or anything. I really just want to buy things."
I've been driving an ice cream truck for the past four years."
I majored in Library Science."
Ten minutes into the meet-up on Saturday, this young man came sprinting up. He was out of breath and very nervous. I guess when he and his ex-girlfriend were still dating, they made an agreement that if one of them should get on HONY, they would hold up a sign for the other. He made it seem like he was on a mission of grave, grave importance. It seemed that saying no"  would be like refusing to lend a hose to a man whose house was on fire.
So hello, Olivia!
These two were just specks on the horizon when I spotted them, but those two specks seemed to have very similar heads of hair. 


FINAL PRINT SALE ANNOUNCEMENTSale ends at midnight tonight. Then the blog will finally stop looking like a PBS telethon. I think this has definitely been a win/win for everyone involved. HONY is now financially secure for the foreseeable future, and a large number of you will be receiving some beautiful, signed art in the next couple of weeks. You are going to love how these look.I love what this print sale has demonstrated. First off, it shows that HONY can be self-supporting without sponsorship or ads. On a more personal level, it has validated some of my deepest convictions. I can't tell you how many times over the past two years I've heard: Nice photographs, but you're crazy if you think you will ever make money doing this. It's taken nearly two years of being broke, but I can finally do what I love full time and know where rent is coming from next month. All because of you. And because of Facebook and Tumblr, which helped me find you. So thank you. If there's anyone out there who still wants prints, you can get them here until midnight: For everyone who has ordered, all the photographs are being printed early next week. My goal is to have them all mailed by week's end. I will keep everyone updated on the progress. Again, thank all of you for your support.


*The website server is normally overloaded for the first twenty minutes or so following these posts. If you can't access the site, try back in a bit.
This elegant woman is Mary Cronson, founder of the Works and Process series at the Guggenheim. I know this because her proud son kept whispering her credentials to me while I set up the shot. She's a very important New Yorker,"  he told me.
If you are hiring a videographer to film your proposal, you may want to inquire if he has a zoom lens.
So I first got to Summit Rock yesterday at 4:10, and there were 3 people waiting. So I thought the meet-up was going to be really, REALLY cozy."  To make matters worse, a videographer from Tumblr was on hand to document our very puny meet-up for eternity. But the three girls who did show up were really gracious and nice, so we sat down and started chatting.

Then at 4:15, a very nervous young man came sprinting up the hill asking to be photographed with a message for his ex-girlfriend. (More on this later) This provided some unexpected comic relief.

Then at 4:17, a mother/daughter pair from Cape Cod climbed over a stone wall surrounding the encampment. They were really, really excited to have made it, which made me really happy.

From then on, people came pretty steadily for the next four hours. I ended up staying till 8 PM. There seemed to be a constant, rotating crowd of 30 or 40 people the entire time. So there was always someone to talk to, but never too many people that I couldn't talk to everyone. The people who came said some of the nicest things and made me very happy. Thank you. It was a great afternoon.

With people coming over a 4 hour span, it was difficult to take a group shot. But I did manage to snap a couple group portraits at different points in the meet-up. Made me smile looking back over these pics and remembering all the people I got to talk to.
These two were sitting along the eastern edge of Central Park, looking oh-so-complementary.
Your hair kind of looks like feathers."
That's because those are feathers."
Holy shit! Your feathers look like hair."
Cheap Thrills
Seen on the subway.
The Bulk Rate
At the printer now looking at the final run of prints. I am quite literally thrilled by how these look. You have a little more than 48 hours to get in on the first ever HONY print sale. Selected from over 5,000 portraits, these are 15 of the best prints from the first two years of HONY. All prints are 8 x 12, signed by me, and will never be sold again. $30 for one. If you buy 5 or more, they are $20 apiece. 2 DAYS LEFT:*Appears the website just crashed again. But don't worry, it normally returns to normal within the hour.
The Biker Gang
Tomorrow from 4PM to 7PM, I will be at Summit Rock in Central Park if anyone wants to hang out, ask questions, hug it out, high-five, take photos, or just chat: We may try to take a group shot, but no individual portraits will be taken. I'm going to stick pretty fast to that rule. We do have a permit and I'll stay as long as there are people who still want to chat. Also, there's supposedly a free concert in Central Park at 7PM:See you there?
In a particularly New York scene, this man was doing puppet shows based of the short stories of Franz Kafka.  He had a very young assistant who blew into a saxophone during all the pivotal scenes.
TWO DAYS LEFT: The Humans of New York Print Sale

The site tends to crash after these announcements. So if you can't get on, try back in an hour or so.
For two weeks only, I am offering 15 Limited Edition prints to raise money for Humans of New York.
These are the first HONY photos that have ever been printed, and they will never be sold again. I'm hoping that as HONY continues to grow, this first run of prints will be a really cool thing to have one day.
All prints are 8 x 12, and signed by me on the back. One print is $30. If you buy 5 or more, they are $20 a piece.
Now that's art.
I was initially just planning on photographing the 102 year old woman, but, over the course of our conversation,  I realized she had the world's sweetest caretaker.
I told him I wanted to take his photograph because he looked like a composer.  In reality, it's because I saw him slip a homeless man a $20 bill five minutes earlier.
Some cops came over to break this up"  but ended up asking tons of questions about the snakes. Guess it's kind of like pulling over a speeder to find out what kind of engine he has.
Here's a piece of New York history in the most literal sense. I was photographing a person outside of the Waldorf Astoria when I heard a man calling to me in Italian. I looked up and saw this guy, striking a pose against some scaffolding. He was part of a crew doing renovations on the facade of the hotel. That hotel is so nice,"  he told me, that every brick has Waldorf printed on it. It's absolutely amazing. Let me show you."  He climbed a ladder, and came down with one of the old bricks of stone he had removed from the building. Sure enough, it said Waldorf Grays." The modern Waldorf was built in 1931. You can almost imagine the owner of the rock quarry adding that little touch to impress his very important client.

I would never wear something boring."
Found this girl lying quite photogenically on an old bench in an East Harlem park.
Rain is the eternal enemy of glamor.
In a wonderful twist of fate, the owner of these feet happened to be accompanied by the mom of Anonymous Thunderstorm Karate Hero:
I watched these two playing for about five minutes and I swear, the only time the little guy wasn't laughing was when he looked into the camera.
Seen in Lower Midtown
I'm a litigator."
Is there a verdict that you're most proud of?"
There's a few of them. In once case, my client had developed Postherpetic Neuralgia because a clinic didn't give him the correct medication for Shingles. He was living his whole life in pain because of a decimal error. They gave him 800 mg of medicine instead of 8000 mg. When we brought the case to trial, the statute of limitations had expired. But I was able to argue my way out of it."
She initially said no."  Luckily a HONY fan walked by just in time to assure her the blog was not sketchy at all."
Dear HONY,Our names are Rebecca and Ali Rosenthal, and we are sisters, and best-friends. We are 17, and 14 respectively, and have been fans of HONY forever. We would really love if you could photograph someone special for your fabulous blogHis name is Herbert Isaac Rosenthal, and he is our adorable one-year old yellow lab! At a mere ten weeks-old, Herbie"  was diagnosed with a rare disease called Leptosporosis. 3 weeks in the ICU and countless operations later, Herbie was the youngest animal ever to survive from the disease. As a result, he was awarded the Animal Medical Center's Living Legend of the Year,"  and a lunch in his honor was held at the Harmonie Club. Because of his legendary recovery, Herbie also now has his own blog on WebMD. This little funky fur ball is no ordinary fellow, and the Rosenthal family would be honored if you would feature him on your blog. Thank you so much for your time, and we look forward to hearing from you! Best, Rebecca and AliThe Rosenthal family turned out to be super interesting and creative, and their house was full of concept art. One of those art pieces can be seen on the right side of the photograph. Herbie has peed on it several times.
You guys should have seen the people diving out of the way as I chased these two down the street
Everyday Royalty
The Early Bird Gets the Worm
BE WISE AND REPENT [of your wavering]
THE TIME IS FULFILLED
THE END [of the print sale] IS AT HAND

5 DAYS LEFT: The HONY Print Sale


Only 5 days left in the first ever Humans of New York Print Sale. There are 15 Prints to choose from. Each print is 8 x12, signed by me, and will never be sold again. They are $30 apiece. $20 if you buy 5 or more. These will be the only HONY prints in existence. If HONY continues to grow as it has been, I'm hoping this first run of prints will be a really neat thing to have one day.
Love the purse/scarf symmetry she's got going on.
This has always been a city of the Just Arrived.
There was a traffic cone knocked over on the sidewalk, directly in front of these men. I picked it up and casually tossed it aside. The man on the left got really stern, and said: I know you didn't just do that to my cone."  I looked at him, waiting for him to laugh. But a few seconds passed and his face didn't change. He looked pretty upset. I know you didn't just do that,"  he repeated.

Then he burst out laughing.
Definitely the most elaborate portrait request I've ever received.

Summary:
Hey Brandon! We were going to throw a big 16th birthday party for our friend but she had the worst week ever, which started with her getting robbed, and ended with her in the hospital, so we had to cancel. We are having the rescheduled party on the great lawn at Central Park and if you come we will give you free hugs.

Bigger version of collage here:

I don't pay much attention to my surroundings anymore. If she's happy, I'm happy. That's about it."
I made the earrings myself."
Does the headless soldier have any significance?"
Nah. My nephew just bit it off."
I tried to give him a business card, but his friend intervened, saying: You better give that to me, he's really hammered. 
I'm half Chiricahua."
Can you spell that?"
Just search for Geronimo's tribe."
I'm big on Dixieland Jazz!"
You can take away the shades, the flags, the helmet, and the suit and you've still got the world's greatest beard.
Puerto Rican Day only comes once a year.
One way to take care of the rodent problem.
Out of frame, the coach is saying: You see what happens when you win? You get your picture taken!"
When you have a dog, you tend to see a little of your own dog in every dog that passes by no matter what the size or shape. I think thats why there's such an informal sense of community among dog owners.

Might also be why people tend to adopt a softer view of humanity after they've had a child.
At first his mom said no,"  but then our masked hero spoke up and demanded a photo.

It says: "Congratulations on day of marriage!'"
Hemingway and Gellhorn
Dear HONY,My name is Riley and I’m from Honolulu. Me and my girlfriend went to the same high school, but I go to school in Chicago and she goes to school in New York. We’ve been together 5 months total, but we've only spent 2 weeks together in person. It sucks horribly.As if this wasn’t difficult enough, she’s interning in NYC. I’m spending most of my money to come up to NYC to visit her for a few days, it’s going to be the only time I get to see her until the winter. The problem is that she’s staying in an all women's dorm and I didn’t have enough money to book a hotel for the entire time I’m in New York… So we’re going to try sneak me into her dorm in a suitcase. Nobody believes that I can/will actually do this so I’d love it if you could take a picture of the attempt, at least to prove that it actually happened.-RileyI can confirm the mission was successful, though the security guard did seem a little perplexed that a small girl was dragging a 150 lb suitcase through the lobby, six inches at a time.
Seen in Times Square
How's the team doing?"
One win. One loss. And two draws. But these kids had never touched a baseball before. So we're doing good. 
What are the balloons for?"  My daughter just graduated from 8th grade."  Holy crap! You must really love your daughter."  I do."
The Weaker"  Sex
Did you guys plan this?" We did not." You do realize the effect it creates, right?" We do."
Seems like a woman you'd see on the arm of Humphrey Bogart in some black and white film. 

View from the West Side this evening.
Not sure I can think of a better caption than a simple description: Four horse-headed people found on Wall Street. 
Dear HONY,
Adam Kuchler (pronounced: ‘kook’ + ‘ler’) is more than a clown or a busker. Not only is he a variety artist, but he is a colleague, a friend, and an inspiration. I met Adam while working with the Bindlestiff Family Cirkus only a year ago - but he has quickly turned into one of the greatest friends I have ever known. He has been a part of the BFC for more than 10 years, and before that, he traveled with Ringling Brothers Circus. 
It wasn’t hard for me to see how caring and selfless of a person Adam is. Many times he has sacrificed his comfort for mine or anyone else’s. I am not native to the streets of NYC - and Adam has time after time gone out of his way to make sure I get to where I’m going safe and sound. I have never experienced such generosity from somebody I have known for such a small amount of time or seen somebody so willing to help others. More than that - Adam is a kind-hearted individual who enjoys making people smile even if he himself is having a rough day. His openness, humor, and honesty are barely the beginning of what make Adam so special. 
He is also relatively easy to find! Adam has recently been invited to be a busker (street performer) at the South Street Sea Port (next to Pier 17). You can find him there almost any sunny day - especially the weekends. He will be the adorable guy stacking brightly colored cigar boxes, flipping and throwing hats, or trying to fit through a green and white shopping bag. 
-Anonymous

Funny story: 
I walked all around South Street Sea Port yesterday, but didn't see any clowns. I guess he's not working today,"  I thought. Then just as I was leaving, I saw a guy packing some things into a crate. I decided to give it a shot: Are you by any chance Adam?"  I asked. 
He looked very confused and a little frightened: Yeah, I'm Adam,"  he said. What's going on here?"
Initially, I just approached Grandma and Grandpa. But then there was some chattering in a foreign language, and the whole family mobbed it up. Then Grandpa thanked me four times before leaving, which made me feel very good about myself. From my experience taking portraits, it seems to me that Indian culture places a high value on the words thank you."  It's a great quality to have.
I designed it myself. It's done in the Suprematist* tradition."

*According to my research, Suprematism was a system of art created in 1915 by Russian artist Kazimir Malevich. It is purely aesthetic and concerned only with form, free from any political or social meaning. Malevich stressed the purity of shape, particularly of the square.
Rawrrrrr.
There goes my hero.
Cash guards the only checkpoint leading into Wall Street, and makes sure no bombs get through. What'd you do today?
This man was having so much fun with Spider Man that I asked to take his photo. After I snapped the shot, we exchanged business cards. His said:

Liu Hai Feng,
Assistant General Manager, 
China Display Technologies,
Huang shan Office: China Display Industrial Park, Yao and Shun Industrial Zone, Xiuning County, Huangshan City, Anhui Province
Perhaps the best I've ever done at capturing the energy of Wall Street.
Who's that on your shirt?" My ex-boss. We made these to make fun of him. Because he's bald."
I was on a Brooklyn-bound subway when I saw a kid nodding his head to music and jotting in a notebook. I thought he might have been writing raps, but he told me he was doing a poetry assignment for school. He said I could photograph the poem.
The poem reminded me of a casual conversation that I once had with a man who'd spent his life teaching English in poor neighborhoods. In places where many adults are consumed by their own problems,"  he explained, a simple writing assignment can represent the only place where a child has the opportunity to validate his/her emotional life.
Perhaps the most casual I've ever seen a tie look.
Shopping was my pastime.  I have all the clothes I needboxes and boxes of gloves and hats.  All I have to do now is stay the same size."
This is my revolt against the computer society."
He was on death row."
When I was young, the thing to do was get married young and buy a house. If I was to give advice to someone starting out today, it'd be this: make sure your income comes before your expenses. It's the only way to live."
Strong use of vintage umbrella.
A Puerto Rican artist named Katya Giovanna just emailed me this depiction of a recent HONY portrait. I love it. 
I always pick the low hanging fruit.
I always respect these coordinating couples, because I have a hard enough time coordinating with myself.
Seen in Times Square
Why do I find myself hoping that every beautiful Russian woman is a spy?
She's got him on lock down.
I actually had to restart my computer because of a glamour overload.
These two were doing a dry-run for a fire twirling show.
Due to a large amount of traffic surrounding the print sale, the site crashed. Gonna see if I can upgrade the servers and try this again really soon. In the meantime, here's a dog wearing goggles.
When I was growing up, these buildings were filled with Italians. Now it's 90% Chinese. The only thing that's still Italian are the restaurants."
I took a trip to Israel for a couple weeks and somehow ended up in India. I was out of of money, so I designed my own vests and sold them until I could afford to get home."

You can check out her vests here: 
One of the most dangerous maneuvers in street photography is approaching a group of women, but only asking one for her photograph.
A couple months ago, when I first started accepting portrait nominations, I got a little overeager in my commitments. Having a Bat Mitzvah two months from now? Sounds great! Throwing a surprise birthday party for your mom next April? We could probably make that work!" Anyway, things got really busy and I soon realized I was pretty badly overextended. One of the people who came up on the short end of this overbooking was Julian, who wanted me to photograph him asking his girlfriend Julia to prom. I never made it, but he sent me a photograph of the event. Thought the least I could do was post it. Looks like everything went well.
 
Young at Heart
I'm eighty years old. An eighty-six year old man was just speaking to me in a flirtatious manner, I believe, but his daughter pulled him away."
Designer from Barcelona smokes a cigar in SoHo, while drawing his own hand smoking a cigar.  That's deep.
I almost wore the same suit.
That would have been awkward. 
Pit Stop
Eerily beautiful.
I kept thinking how much she looked like a flower.
Let's hope Ken is HIS name, and not his barber's.
Apparently this millennium's Mortal Kombat tourney is being held in SoHo.
Just heading back from the bar.  I'm not the kind of girl who needs a wingman."
Not sure what's in the stroller, but I hope it has a Jeter jersey.
I loved everything about this lady. From the way she dressed, to the way she posed, to the fact that she was halfway inside a grocery store when she agreed to walk back out into the rain.
About time this little bird learned to fly.
A bit like putting a bandaid on a cadaver.
Easily the most Chinese trashcan I've ever seen. 
Probably got the biggest laugh of my HONY career when I asked for this guy's story, and he answered in a complete deadpan: Just running for President."  He then handed me a description of his platform, which among other things, included a free pony for every American."
The education system is so geared toward fact drilling and rote memorization that students often exit with a head full of dates and formulas, but without the ability to constructively think.  Now, if we readjusted the testing and educational system to focus on critical reasoning rather than memorization, then even if we knew fewer facts off the top of our heads  we would be smarter overall.  We would take a step toward doubt – and a step toward thinking for ourselves."

I bet teachers just LOVE when this guy raises his hand.
Speaking and debating competitively is the best way to hone so many important skills for life. Confidence in front of an audience? Yes. Poise under pressure? Yes. The skills needed to research? Yes. The ability to speak extemporaneously? Yes. The chance to make friends with peers from across the city, state, and country? Yes. Training to be the leaders of tomorrow? Definitely.Bronx Science has one of the very largest teams in the United States. We have been lucky to be ranked #1 in the country before and we've won national titles. I can't express how awesome it is to work with so many humble, bright kids from so many backgrounds who all share a passion for such a valuable, enjoyable activity." -Jon Cruz, Coach of the Bronx Science Debate Team
Dear HONY,
Jon Cruz is not a millionaire, nor a politician, and outside the little niche he has carved for himself and filled with many others he is not famous at all; yet, he is one of the one of the most important men in New York City. He is the coach of the Bronx Science HS Debate Team.
Every day he gives up his time to help his students form their own opinions, grow as citizens and as people. He runs the largest debate team in the country, spending countless hours raising funds for it so that everybody at our diverse public school is able to compete across the nation. He memorizes everybody’s first name after he meets them and will remember them for the rest of his life.
What makes him so memorable? He is a fabulous, unapologetic, Jewish gay man; a model for so many students who came out to him first for help. His style is inspired with equal parts of George Lucas, Walter Mondale, and Liberace. He can tell you the best place for sushi in Soho, pizza in Midtown, and gumbo in Georgia. But most of all, no person could ever do what he does, at least not with the same enthusiasm and care which he does it.
Sincerely,The Bronx Science HS Debate Team
What's the best part about being The Papa?"
Grandkids."
Dear HONY,
Please, oh please, let me be the first albino NY'ker that you photograph! I won't try to woo you with tales of how awesome or incredibly stellar I am, or by trying to convince you to find me interesting because I can leap tall buildings in a single bound, or ride a unicycle backwards while juggling cats. I'm just me, and in that, pretty cool aesthetically just because I'm pigmentally challenged. I'm going to be in Manhattan today with my daughter.
Guenevere
PS. My daughter thinks I'm crazy
BedStuy Chic
I always ask couples what their favorite things about each other are"
Well we aren't a couple. We're just friends. I'm helping him walk."
Oh, um.."
But we can still answer. I love his honesty."
And she's my favorite person to have next to me."
He finally sprayed the wrong person.
Soul Mates
Her mother asked if she wanted to take a photo. She responded with frantic nodding.
He put his mother, two grandmothers, and great aunt on his right leg. He put his father on the other leg, probably so he could have a little peace.
This woman was sitting on a bench in Tompkins Square Park, saying God bless you"  to every person who passed by.
Some of you may remember young  from a few days back. I invited him to come out photographing with me on Memorial Day. His training involved asking groups of sailors for their photograph while I hid behind the corner, laughing. He was also recruited to wield a bamboo pole while standing on a make-shift sculpture I built out of discarded chairs.Hopefully he took something away from all of this.
I don't have many rules, but one of them is to photograph this man every time I see him.
They don't make "em like this anymore."
All Tangled Up
The man in the foreground and the man in the background don't know each other, but I think they were destined to be in the same place at the same time.
The best part about heating up is cooling down.
This photo was taken around midnight on a Brooklyn-bound C Train. The son was sprawled out on his father's lap, sleeping. The father was cradling the boy's head in his hands. It was a pretty touching scene, and I wanted to photograph it, but I was very tired myself and I wasn't sure how much I'd be able to capture from such a close distance. Then suddenly, the father lifted his son into a sitting position, and leaned in so they were touching faces.
I quickly pulled my camera from it's case and snapped a shot. One of the most natural, beautiful moments I've ever been able to capture. 
This is what I make."
The kid on the left was so funny.  One day last week, he just walked up to me and started saying the word please"  over and over.  No introductions.  No explanations. Just please."   His friend had never heard of HONY and was very confused.  I ended up taking their photo, but the photo never made it on the blog. Then, yesterday, I received an email.  Clearly worried that his photo had been lost in the shuffle, our protagonist tried to spice up his portrait with a self-described interesting"  backstory.  The story proved hilariously weak.  In essence, he used 250 words to say he was on the way to his house to grab a frisbee: My friends and I were all hanging out on the upper east side, five of us to begin with. We all decide to go to the great lawn in central park because of the beautiful day that it was. Somehow, the idea got into their heads "we need to play frisbee on the lawn.' Being the only person whose house was within walking distance, I was essentially forced into going home and picking up my frisbeesomething that I was not trying to do because of reasons undisclosed. Reluctantly, I went, and dragged my friend Matt with me for company. On such a beautiful day, how could one be in a bad mood? Easy: be forced to go do something that one does not want to do. The series of events made me a little bummed out, until I walked two blocks and ran into 'that guy who does HONY.'" Anyway, I am posting his portrait as a testament to perseverance.
I guess you can say it was raining laughably hard.
Pierce, if you're out thereit's time to come home.
I don't mind the white people moving into the neighborhood. They're like the Indiansthey came in peace. And they brought some Whole Foods with em'. And Fleetwood Mac. Plus the police don't break up our block parties anymore."


Jasmin makes unique hats.  She seemed very timid about the whole portrait process, though.  At one point I jokingly asked: You aren't much of a risk-taker, are you?"

She got very serious and said: I'll have you know I left my rent-controlled apartment in San Francisco to move here!"

Check out her work at
He pee pee a lot."
Rain Delay
Self Portrait
Meet Hazem. He created an IPhone/Android App called Vibe, which allows users to speak anonymously with people in their general area. Think: movie theaters, concerts, protests. 
The user can control how far his/her voice is heard. You can choose to speak and listen anonymously to the people on your block, or expand your range to include everyone in your city. Hazem explains that the App was used by Zuccotti Park protestors who wanted to have private conversations about sensitive internal issues, such as theft and cleanliness. 
I think his App brings up an interesting issue: does the wired world need more anonymity? It serves a useful purpose in repressive countries, but I think anonymity on the internet generally brings out the worst in people. 
One of the reasons I value Facebook is that it forces people to claim"  their commentary. It seems to keep the discourse (relatively) more civil. Though there are some sensitive exceptions, I feel that generally, if you don't feel comfortable owning up"  to your words, you probably shouldn't be speaking them.
Try Vibe for yourself at
Even the pimp industry is going green.
The Joys of Parenthood
Critical Mass is a worldwide protest on the last Friday of every month. In cities around the world, bicyclists form large packs and ride through the streets. They aim to draw attention to the need for bike lanes and cyclist rights.

They also can cause a headache for city administrators. They hate us,"  explains this protestor, posing in front of the group's police escort. They herd us like cattle, and ticket us for anything they can."

This reminds me of one of the chief conflicts underlying the Occupy Wall Street protests:

The right of protestors to assemble
vs
The right of the City to maintain order
Not long after the creation of Poops of New York, Sam Josephs, the young man behind the site, sent me a Facebook message and requested his own HONY portrait.

Sure Sam,"  I wrote back, I'm sure we could do that."  But then I forgot about it, and a couple weeks passed by. Then I got this letter:


Dear HONY,
We shall not, nay, cannot continue playing this game of sorts. I must admit that it was I that started playing this match of tactical checkers. It was I that first enticed you with a photographic collection of excrement in a reflection of your own creation and in your own honor in an attempt to gain your courtesy. Then it was your move, and you played quite well. You thought it clever to share my shrine to you with the populous, your first move. As you planned it brought me into the piercing spotlight of fame, that as some may know too well is forever fleeting and shan’t stay in one place too long, much like your heart. It gained me followers far and wide overnight with which I delighted over, and it was you that gave me this pleasure of recognition. And then the cat and mouse game begins. I thought i might send you a message explaining my desires, I did not and do not beat around the bush nor try to hide my true intention, I made it clear to you what I so desperately desired. You replied in a cryptic message instructing me to message you through a different device, and like a servant to a master I did as I was told. Then I played the waiting game, and as days began to fade to nights, and the sands of time continue to fall where they may, I began to lose hope. I thought I might try to contact you one last time, and again no reply. I had fallen into your trap; you gave me the gift of notoriety knowing full well I would grow fond of it and crave more, then when I tried to attain what I craved so desperately, you shunned me. But alas, I accepted your unresponsiveness, it may have left a wound in my flesh, but as wounds do, it would heal with time. But then salt was thrown into this fresh wound when you took a picture of the man of the Halal cart right outside of my school while refusing to photograph me. This was the straw that broke the proverbial camel’s back, I swore my allegiance against you. I unliked you on the book of faces and had to purge my life of you. After weeks of reflection I believed I had recovered, but no, you decide to bring me again into this spotlight now burning my singed soul. I refuse to go on with this back and forth game, and I will make this my final plea, I want one thing and one thing alone. You and I both know what it is.
Take my Picture
Sincerely,Samuel L Josephs IV


So when I visited HCHS last week, I finally granted Sam his wish. Here he is pictured with photographic assistant and fellow turd hunter, Anna. Sam can also be found in the far left of the HCHS group portrait, flicking off the camera.

You can view Sam's site at
Welcome Ashore
Nothing five bandaids won't fix.
This little girl was bringing a lot of joy to the people around her by mimicking every movement of a man doing tai chi. I asked her parents if she knew the man. Not at all,"  answered her father, she's been doing this kind of stuff since she was born."
Fleet Week in full swing.
An extra puppy on the dashboard never ruined anyone's day.
Three Mind-Blowing Facts:

1) These feet belong to a 72 year old man
2) Two years ago, they ran a marathon
3) At the North Pole
A company is considering donating some equipment to HONY, and I just finished meeting at a coffee shop with one of their representatives. ANYWAY, the meeting just finished, and I noticed I had a new email. So, so funny:

HONY,

I SAW YOU LIKE 20 MINUTES AGO! I hope this picture works. I didn't want to go up to you and say hi because you were in a meeting so instead I took this. I was extremely excited. That's one thing I can check off of my to do list in NYC.

Isabelle
I think this is a compelling image because it could have many meanings. For liberals, it could represent the instability of a profit-obsessed society. For conservatives, it could represent the impending collapse of the American dollar due to massive debt. Or it could just be a bomb filled with cash.



Was honored with a personal tour of Tumblr HQ today. Realized after I left that I probably should have taken more than one photo.
Anonymous hero performs public karate ritual in thunderstorm while wearing business attire.
This man designed his own board game. If you pay him $2.00, he'll beat the shit out of you at his own game while talking trash the whole time.
The spoon actually has its own story."
Oh yeah? What's that?"
I slip spoons in people's pockets. I've done it thousands of times. It's like pickpocketing, but the opposite. It's a very special skill." *

*The best part of this story is that Meg Ryan walked by in the middle of the conversation. I quickly asked for her photo, but she turned me down. I wasn't too concerned though, because I knew she'd only have been half as popular as Spoon Guy.
A lot of times my group portraits start with a single person. Then bystanders will charge into the frame, one at a time, until a sort of critical mass is reached. 
This hand belongs to an eighty year old woman.
She was wearing a t-shirt that said: Mean People Suck. 
How a germaphobe gets to work.

Somebody needs to hug it out.
I play in an all-boys soccer league, and some guy fell on me during a game. But he kinda looked like Ronald Weasley, so I didn't mind all that much."
I ran into traffic when I saw this across the street.
Meet Miles Shebar. Miles pretty much stuck by my side for the entirety of my HCHS visit. He was asking questions the entire time. He was telling me about blogs he was starting, computers he was building, and films he was making. And he's only 14. It was just hilariously obvious to me that this kid is going to be very famous one day. At one point, I was telling him about how a few of my captions resulted in a lot of angry mail.

I know what you mean,"  he said, I once mispronounced the spell in a Harry Potter video I made, and boy did I hear about it!"

WATCH IT:
Had a meet-and-greet today at Hunter College High School.  Never done anything like this before, so I wasn't really sure what to expect.  The possibility of nobody showing up was definitely rattling around in the back of my mind.  When I got there, five or six kids were waiting for me. 
Well that's nice,"  I thought.  I figured since the group was so small, I'd do something nice for everyone.  So I went up to a nearby food cart and bought all the attendees a soda.
You know there are more people coming,"  one of them said.  Class lets out in five minutes. 
Oh."
Looks like a scene from a virus disaster movie.
Two weeks ago I saw this guy in Central Park, and asked for his photo. Sorry man,"  he told me, I would, but I'm in a huge hurry."
Yesterday I saw him again in the East Village, and again asked for his photo. Same response: Sorry man. I would, but I'm in a huge hurry."
You told me that last week,"  I said.
Oh shit,"  he replied. Sorry dude. I say that to everyone. Nothing personal. You can snap a pic if you want."
I used to take a lot of pictures too. Just of my friends, coworkers, and relatives. I never took pictures of things. Who wants to see monuments? We want to see how we looked when we were younger."
The Jumper
It says: When birds look into houses, what impossible worlds they see."
Oh, pretty people
On a dark path in Central Park, around midnight:We're from Moldova. Do you know where that is?" Oh, yeah, Moldova! I know where that is." Oh yeah? Where is it?" Well, you know not sure I could POINT IT OUT, but" You don't know where Moldova is." Not really."
This dog was hilarious. He was completely obsessed by the football. Three guys were standing in a triangle, throwing the ball to each other. Each time the ball was thrown, the dog would charge to the new recipient and start barking as his feet. If the ball was held over his head, he'd start jumping wildly, trying to get it. I literally saw him do a semi-flip trying to get the football.
I love that in an age of iPhones and Playstations, this little guy is rocking a bus-on-a-string.
I walked behind these two for about ten blocks, and didn't really feel the need to photograph them. Until he did this.
I'm going to be on a reality show tonight at 10!" What channel?" Oxygen." What role do you play?" The crazy gay guy."
A well worn cloak can create a beautiful mystery. 
Seen in Madison Square Park.
The City no doubt paid a lot of money for this commissioned"  piece of modern art in Madison Square Park. I'm just surprised I found it before  did.
I've photographed hundreds of couples. And the cynical side of me is aware that even the unhappiest couples can muster up some affection for a photograph. But these two had the sort of love that cannot be faked. They've been together for 35 years. Every time he talked, she looked at him with the biggest smile on her face. He does absolutely everything for me,"  she said, I'm completely spoiled."

The man was equally as passionate. I used to be a butcher,"  he told me. He leaned forward and lowered his voice to a whisper: She used to come into my store. Every week I would set apart the best piece of meat for her. And look how it turned out I ended up with the best piece of meat of them all."
You'll have to forgive me for allowing myself a Lady Gaga moment.
Late Saturday night, a party bus drove through the center of Times Square.  It was blasting Latin music and was filled with dancing, screaming women.  I walked up to one of the windows and snapped a picture.
Fashion by way of Saudi Arabia
He paid for the thing, so somebody's gonna damn well use it.
To them, I'm mommy."
Her parents were skeptical of the man with the camera.  Luckily, she was feeling very brave.  Because she makes a beautiful picture.
David Karp, founder of Tumblr, showing that one of the most under-appreciated pathways to being cool is to fully embrace being a nerd.
Everything in moderation, including moderation. 
I wonder how they view their relationship."
What do you mean?"
Do you think they just stay together for reproductive purposes? Or do they actually feel some sort of companionship?"
They've got to feel SOME companionship. I mean, look at them they're together in Central Park at midnight."
A colorful Londoner in Central Park.
I love how little kids can dance to any music and the dance never really changes all that much.
Chess, like soccer, is a common thread between so many cultures.


What's your favorite thing about him?"
No matter what, he makes the best of it."
What's your favorite thing about her?"
Her sense of adventure."
I'm a Catholic monk.  I live a life of prayer."
What about the cigarette?"
Somebody's got to make the clouds."
I watched a few documentaries on the subject, and I'm pretty sure this man was the cause of World War I.
And her name was Aurora.
I'm pretty sure there's a person trapped in there.


If the shrieking was any indication, these two were very excited by how the photo came out.
I was trying to get a job as a waiter and they wanted a sample of my hair so they could test it for drugs.  I said, "I've got no problem with that cause I don't put drugs on my head, I put them in my nose.'"
As if Dad being too busy to take a photo was going to keep little man from having his big moment.
Yesterday, there was some event in Union Square called the Sports Bra Challenge.  It featured loud music and rows and rows of stationary bikes.  Look very, very closely and see if you can you find the participant who doesn't seem to belong.
This man was so nice. He spoke in this out-of-nowhere Scottish accent, and he said the word laddie"  four times, as in:
Hello, laddie."
Thank you, laddie."
God bless you, laddie."
Goodbye, laddie."
This guy was so funny. He spotted an unattended bag at the 110th St. subway station, and started asking around to determine its owner. Nobody claimed it. That's a suspicious package,"  I said. You're gonna have to check it out. It's your civic duty."  A couple women standing nearby started eying the situation nervously.

He started inching toward it. He slowly peeked into the bag.
Holy shit!"  he said. There's some good shit in here!"
Every time I entrust my dog to my girlfriend, something like this happens
Whatever makes you happy.
Meet Daniel Hamner.  
Everything about him is mismatched: He's got this huge politician smile, but, by looking at him, you'd think he was part of the New York arts scene.
Then he begins speaking in this slow, gentlemanly Kentucky drawl.
Finally, you'll learn that he's a Doctor of Sports Medicine: C'mon by the office,"  he told me, We'll throw you in the hyperbaric chamber.  On the house."
Damn Juilliard degree. 
I have been waiting all year for Larry to put his karate outfit back on. His new love of pigeons was an added bonus.
Notable for being unarguably the cleanest-looking mohawk I've ever seen.
Now that is some major brand loyalty.
Seen on the Upper East Side.
Spotted on the subway.
To the world you may be one person, but to one person you may be the world.
Not sure that I've ever been so honored to introduce someone as I am right now.
Gac Filipaj is a refugee from the former Yugoslavia. For the past twelve years, he has worked as a janitor for Columbia University.  His job title is Heavy Cleaner,"  which includes emptying the trash and cleaning the toilets. 
During this time, he worked until 11pm every night during the week.  After his shift concluded, he would start studying.  This weekend, after twelve years of study, Gac graduated from Columbia University with a Classics degree.  Rarely have so many qualities I admire been wrapped up in a single person.
Outsider's perspective: A man walks up to this young woman, and asks for her photograph. She agrees. The man backs up, bumps into a few people, but manages to get the shot. He returns to the young woman, shakes her hand, and exchanges a few pleasantries. The man then hands her a business card. The young woman looks at the business card. Then lots, and lots, and lots of hugging.
I get pretty emotional around those HONY fans.
Congratulations to the Columbia University Class of 2012!
The woman in the back is doing all the work, but don't tell that to the little man in the front.
Seen in Greenwich Village


I kinda want to make a movie just so I can cast this man as the conveyer of a life-morphing wisdom that allows the hero to complete his quest.
I made a quick stop at the Bleecker St. Qdoba today, and was served by this friendly man. I told him I was feeling fatigued, so I wanted a lot of vegetables. He said: You know, it's good to eat healthy. But I think so much of our health comes from our mental state. You hear about these old grandmas who drink hard liquor every day of their lives, but still live to be 98. You know why? Because they had less stress back then. I think the health of the body really follows the health of the mind." Pretty profound stuff. But with that being said, I felt much better after eating my vegetable burrito.
Proud parent of an NYU graduate gets a little overexcited and attempts to take a self portrait with stilt people.
We're from Scottsdale. We come to New York to get rejuvenated." That seems a little backwards." Well, I guess it is."
She's really neglected."
So many times I've seen a stuffed animal tied haphazardly to the grill of a truck. But thisthis is art.
This one reads like a sitcom plot. Meet Mike and Zelda from Crown Heights. Mike was working as a stay-at-home Dad when he decided to open up a coffee shop on Franklin Ave. He named the coffee shop , after his daughter. Mike and Zelda still spend a lot of time together at the shop. There's even a growth chart for Zelda on the wall.
Sometimes you don't mind getting stared at on the subway.
For one fleeting moment, this kid may have been the happiest person in the world.
Bringing the 1800s back.
What this man knows cannot be taught.
The Modern Family
Meet Andrew. I saw him on the subway with a Blow Pop in his mouth. I asked his mom if I could take his photograph, and she said "yes.' So I knelt down:Andrew." Yeah?" Can I see your tongue?"
Apparently someone found the grammatical error more offensive than the F-bomb
This lovely young woman was a little nervous about the whole process, but ended up taking a chanceillustrating one of my favorite maxims: Courage isn't about being brave. It's about being nervous, but doing it anyway. 
Sorry to deliver bad news so early in the morning, but
:

PLEASE REBLOG, ESPECIALLY IN THE AREAS OF NEW YORK, PITTSBURGH, PHILADELPHIA, AND NEW JERSEY!!!!

One of our followers asked us to share this image with the rest of the HONY community.  Please do anything you can to help.
What kind of poetry do you write?" That's like asking what colors I paint with."
That's a pretty violent tattoo." Nah man, women love this tattoo."
She started smiling right when I walked up.
Something's not right here.
Italian artist Lara Pacilio takes large photographs of walls in Brooklyn, then hangs them up 6 months later to demonstrate the pace of change.
Let's ask Congress to officially replace Uncle Sam with Ricky Super.
I could probably figure out a way to do this. I just don't think I'd be able to figure out how to undo it.
BREAKING NEWS: Grown man turns into a five-year old in the presence of infant.
Happy Mother's Day!
I first met this woman on Cinco de Mayo. She was sitting alone in a loud and crowded Mexican restaurant, reading a book. She was wearing a T-shirt that said: It's not the years in your life, it's the life in your years. I ran into her again yesterday. This time she had an equally awesome message on her shirt. I asked for her photo. She said: This isn't going on Facebook is it? I said, Actually it is. She threw up her arms and said, Oh well! Who cares!" *This photo is also notable for having the most epic photo bomb in HONY history.
This man's sweat is bottled and sold as pure testosterone.
I was just writing a song about this girl I dumped because she didn't like HONY." *

*May not have been his exact words, a train was going by.
I have seen this man maybe fifty times, in several different locations around Central Park. He could quite possibly be the most obsessed man in New York. All year long, he uses a telephoto lens to photograph a hawk named Pale Male, who nests on the ledge of a 5th Avenue high-rise. I've tried talking to him a few times. He just keeps looking into his viewfinder, hoping I'll go away. Obsessed.Today I saw him near 79th Street, wearing shorts and a T-shirt. It reminded me of this shot I gottwo Januarys ago. It's a dedication I admire. I aim to be to humans what this guy is to hawks.Here's his website: 
So are you professional cheerleaders?"
Nah.  She teaches yoga.  I'm in sales."
Photo Finish
His name is Niño, which means "child.'  Of course he's fourteen.  And he can't hear anymore."
The whole family was deaf, so the transaction was conducted in a language of smiles.
Unfortunately I am unable to accept portrait submissions.
Unless, of course, they feature a TREE MUTANT.

Thanks to Dana Kurzer-Yashin of Bronx Science HS!
I thought you guys would appreciate these pants.

There are very few zip codes in the world where you can pull off a hat like that.
Nature's Workshop
We do house music."
We just lost a church sister."
Mother and daughter?" Grandmother and granddaughter."
Unemployed librarian employs herself by collecting donated books and setting up make-shift libraries around Brooklyn. Proving that you may need a company to provide you a job, but being unemployed is a personal decision.
Seen in Greenwich Village
Following my general rule to investigate anyone who looks like they belong in a Hobbit movie, I came upon this man. After I took his photo, he handed me a card. It said:Jean-Louis BourgeoisProfessor of Limerick Infliction at Gotham UniversityA student-free university encouraging S.L.O.T.H.SlowLusciousOpportunitiesToward HappinessThe whole experience further justified my instinct to investigate anyone who looks like they belong in a Hobbit movie.
I loved her hair and her shawlluckily the wind kicked in to highlight both.
BREAKING: At 6:48 PM some pretty cool shit was happening somewhere in Central Park.
A Japanese boxer, whom I flagged down while he was running across the Brooklyn Bridge. At one point he thought I was laughing at him, but I assured him: I'm just laughing because this looks SO AWESOME."
Dear HONY,
Hi, I'm a Columbia student and I'd like to tell you about the head of the classics department up here at Columbia in Morningside Heights. Her name is Gerry Visco and she doubles as a writer for the New York Post. She is the most eccentric, real, no bullshit, and indeed, CRAZY lady I have ever had the pleasure of knowing. Just google Gerry Visco"  to see what I mean. She goes around the city and hosts all sorts of alternative parties and writes about them. She has the most unique and loudest fashion sense of anyone I know. It's crazy, you walk up the the 6th floor of Hamilton hall and enter her office and just see all of these bottles of vodka and weird knick-knacks all over the place. You see this huge iMac and this forest of pink hair strands flowing in every which direction behind it. This is her head. She curses, she yells, she calls people out, yet shes one of the nicest, and most honest people I've ever known. If anyone deserves to be on HONY, it's Geraldine Winifred Visco. She is intertwined with the history of New York City. Name a famous New York celebrity, and she can tell you about some time back in the 70s or 80s when she met them. I don't know how you'd catch her on the street though. I would suggest walking right into Hamilton Hall and going up to the 6th floor and just talking to her. She'd LOVE the attention. 
-Jason Ravel
OMGooslings!!!!! 
Just when it seemed she couldn't be prettier, she turned out to be a HONY fan. 
This is known in the business as the who the hell is this guy and why is he laying in a puddle"  look.
So what's your story?" I'm just hawking my goods man, I make these skateboards out of old basketball floors." That's so cool. So what's in the briefcase?" You know, my shit. I'm hawking my goods."
His goods: http://www.facebook.com/GlideSkateboards
I just moved back to the city." Oh yeah? Where've you been?" I had to move back home to Cleveland for a few months, so I could live cheaply while I finished my book."
I had to circle around the park a few times for this one, because the blonde would not allow a photo until all the Chinese food was finished.
I was walking across the Brooklyn Bridge when I noticed this missile coming toward me at a very high speed. In the hope of providing my followers with a fleeting moment of aesthetic pleasure, I disregarded all concern for my life and planted myself directly in the missile's path. Luckily the missile veered away at the last moment. As it passed, the rider shouted these words: COO COO! CAH CAH! WOO HOO!"
BREAKING: Bloodthirsty zombie horde spotted at Washington Square Park, moving due south at 2 mph. If you are in the impact zone, please stay indoors and make sure your pets are secure.
This woman wins the award for the most profound one-liner in HONY history:
May I take your photo? You look beautiful." OK, just make sure you can see the bag." Oh, I didn't realize you were advertising something." Isn't everything beautiful advertising something?"
Supah Stah
This shot was a little difficult to set-up. Two of the subjects were skeptical, one was disinterested, and one was unconscious.
She ain't heavy, she's my sister. 
A smiling end to a contentious couple of days. HONY has grown 800% in two months.
Pssst. I'm still new at this. :)
Thanks for all your support. Love you guys.

Here's to doing it your own way, and doing it beautifully.
For this conversation to be fully appreciated, it should be known that this man was flanked by four younger men when I found him:

They put me on that TV show, Gangland."
Oh. You were in a gang? For how long?"
I'm still in it."
Alllllrighty then. Nice meeting you. 
We run a retirement home back in Switzerland, but this week we are running New York."
This young man also recognized me while I was touring Yeshiva. We too entered into a discussion about last night's post. I asked him to send me a letter with his thoughts. I'd like to preface his letter by saying that I personally remain very confident about my assessment of yesterday's situation. However, Simon's letter contains great wisdom:

Dear HONY,
I figured our paths would cross serendipitously. I’ve been thinking a lot about the picture you posted last night of an Orthodox Jewish man propositioning a Sudanese woman.
You have a microphone that now reaches beyond the humans of New York. You can speak to the humans of the world, using your art as a medium for good, for awareness, for change. It’s a task that requires nuance. Nobility is a slippery slope, and often, in our quest to do justice,
we rush to false judgment. To be virtuous, it seems we must be patient. We must be incredulous even about our own suppositions—especially about our own suppositions—in order to do right by others.
It's a foundational imperative in the Jewish tradition of dan lekaf zechut—judging another favorably—or refraining from judging another unfavorably in the absence of proper evidence.
Simon

UPDATE: The original post has been removed out of respect for the man's family. After 1,000 comments, I believe the discussion had run it's course.
Are you Humans of New York?"
I am.  Did you by any chance see last night's post?"
I did."
Your thoughts?"
There's deviance in every religion.  Simple as that."
Just photograph the bag. It's the best part."
Oh c'mon."
Well all right, just don't get too close!"
This man sent me an email after I took his photo:
I suffer from documented clinical Post Traumatic Stress. I have been a victim of mistaken identity and was shot as a teen. I won the case, but left emotionally scarred. It makes me nervous to be outside at times. 
My wife read about how dogs help Soldiers with PTS and got me a dog, Roscoe. Apparently, there were many clinical studies that support thisI am thankful she is a smart lady. 
Roscoe makes me feel more confident to roam the New York streets again. He provides an Emotional support for me. I have three boys and they can see me strong when I am outside thanks to Roscoe."
I found a woman with a curious body suit on the edge of Washington Square Park. She turned out to be an artist named Galina Rybatsky, and she explained her work as such:
When your pulse drops below 76, it funnels blood out of the mask and your vision is cleared. When your pulse rises above 76, the blood is funneled back into the mask and your vision is obscured. It's designed to teach the user to be sensitive to environmental stressors, and to learn how these stressors affect the body."
This guy needs a voiceover and his own TV show.
I love when people incorporate their age into their style, instead of trying to hide it. Whether it be gray hair, or a cane, or eye glasses there is a dignity associated with having experience. It should be worn like a medal.
This one is very serious, guys:
I came upon these two on the sidewalk. They were having a conversation. Excuse me,"  I said, addressing the girl: I'm sorry to interrupt, but is there anyway I can take your photo?"
Why would you want my photo?"  she asked.Because you look beautiful,"  I said. And she did. She was Sudanese. There is a very distinct beauty among people from the Sudan, and she was filled up with it. Suddenly the man cut in: I was just telling her she was beautiful,"  he said. 
Naively, I assumed I had just walked up on one stranger giving a compliment to another. I wanted to capture the moment. Let me take your photograph together,"  I said. The man seemed reluctant, he started smiling nervously and inching away. But the girl called him back. 
Come take a picture with me,"  she said. Encouraged by her attention, he returned. She put her arm around him, and I took the photo.
As I examined the photos on my camera, the man started whispering to the girl. She answered him in a loud voice: I told you! I'm not that kind of girl."  She seemed agitated now. Finally sensing that I had misread the situation, I stepped between them. The man began hurrying down the sidewalk.
When the man left, the girl's demeanor changed completely. She seemed shaken. Her eyes were tearing up. He just offered me five hundred dollars to go out with him,"  she said. And then when I said "no,' he offered me one thousand. Why does this always happen to me?"
It happens a lot?"  I asked.
All the time,"  she said. I'm sorry I'm getting emotional. I just can't go out of my house without this kind of thing happening. I have a son. I'm a mother. I would never degrade myself like that. I just don't understand why this keeps happening."
Do you mind if I tell this story?"  I asked.Please,"  she said. Tell it."
Let's hope this man, and all men, realize the emotional damage they are inflicting on the women they try to buy. In the meantime, feel free to SHARE.*

*With this man being an Orthodox Jew, I hope that all long-time followers of HONY would by now have realized the high respect I hold for the Orthodox Jewish community as a whole.
Sometimes I've heard people say that you can't capture real life"  if you ask people to pose. That hasn't really been my experience. I love seeing how people choose to present themselves.
Who thinks these two need to meet?
Two Stages of Beauty
If you can't find a hat you like, make your own.
This girl was walking down the sidewalk with her little sister, who was wearing matching blue sunglasses. They made quite a team. But when I asked Mom if I could take their photo, the little sister got very camera shy and began clinging to Dad's leg. So much for that idea.
I decided to take a photo of the older girl just to send to the parents. I wasn't planning on using it for HONY until she struck this pose.
She looks like she is playing volleyball, and the ball is coming toward her, but she really doesn't want it to. Which, incidentally, pretty much sums up my entire youth sports career.
When I came upon these two, Dad had just finished shooting and was sitting down for a rest. The boy was kneeling down, trying to get his small hands around the ball that Dad had left behind. I asked for a portrait, and suggested that Dad lift the boy up just like the portrait shows.

When I walked away, I glanced back over my shoulder. Instead of returning to the bench where I'd found him, Dad was now down on his knees trying to teach the boy to dribble.

I found it poetic how the perception created by the portrait led to an actual change in behavior. The man wanted to be the Dad in the portrait teaching the boy to play. Even though I'm sure he's already a wonderful father, the portrait reminded him to keep being so.

There's a healthy pressure to live up to others' perceptions of us. It's a pressure created by healthy communities. It's the pressure that turns children into good adults. And adults into good parents.
Dear HONY,
I know you don't always go for the local celebrities"  angle, but Jimmy Web is such a gem. In spite of the leather pants and tattoo sleeves, he's more like one of those old school knows-your-name shopkeepers. He's there every day and loves what he does. Subculture kids who come to NYC treat his store, Trash and Vaudeville, like a tourist destination and a Mecca and he's so gracious about all of it. Like, yeah, he's met everyone who's anyone in rock and roll history, but he'll still smile at you when you buy your $5 clearance t-shirt.
-Rena

*Having met Jimmy today, I can confirm that he is such a special person. He was so touched that someone wrote that letter about him. That's exactly what I try to be,"  he said, I sell clothes to a lot of big namesbut really, what I'm all about, is trying to help everyone become their dream."   
This woman is 93 years old. When I found her, she was sitting at a bus stop. She agreed to walk ten feet so I could take a better portrait. It was a journey of many, many steps. Let us salute her. 
I'm 99 years old. Everything from my neck down is shit. But everything from my neck up is as good as anyone else. How lucky is that?"
Dream Big
Six Flags Over Manhattan
I actually studied to be a Rabbi. But there's nothing like theological school to turn you into a heretic."
Things I find beautiful: chopped clouds over a full moon, branches bent by sea winds, the sunset in a glass skyscraper, church days in Harlem.
They say you loosen up a little after the second kid.
The Original Vibrams
This letter destroyed the 250 word limit, but since I'm a sucker for good writing, I'll let it slide:Dear HONY,In a city where weather, the MTA, opportunity, and conflict are all so unpredictable, I can be certain of only one thing. If the wind isn't too strong and it's not pouring rain, Kishan, the bubble man, will be standing near the steps of Bethesda Terrace creating bubbles that stretch so large, they look like translucent elephants floating into the clouds. I first stumbled upon Kishan during class one day. We were given an assignment to take our video cameras out and explore the city by filming elements surrounding us given our half hour time frame. With a stroke of luck and rebellion, we ended up in the park, and for a solid hour filmed a bubble in every which way one can film a bubble. When we brought our footage back, our peers were fascinated with the way the sunlight reflected off the soap suds and how gently they would pop and create a mid-air waterfall. Later in my freshman year, the Communications Department required students within the major to declare a concentration: one of them being a focus in film. This concentration was more selective and applicants were required to produce creative work alongside their application. Stressed and in need of inspiration, I walked through the park and stumbled upon the bubble man, yet again.He immediately remembered my name, something that most New Yorkers realize isn't a regularity. Stunned and somewhat touched, I asked him if I could film him for my concentration project. He agreed, and for the next two weeks, Kishan and I talked bubbles. A very good actor, subject- I didn't know what to call him- his awareness of the camera was fascinating. The control of his bubbles even more breathtaking. What do you want me to do now, Sarah?"  Uh, I'm not sure."  How about you go inside a bubble? That might look cool."  I would nod and hit record. Before I knew it, I was enveloped by a transparent casing, and for a slight second his enthusiasm makes you wonder if your feet might slightly lift off the ground. As if, maybe he has a secret to levitation, gravity, and flight. I'd ask him: You do this everyday, don't you?"  He said, Why not? It makes people happy. It makes me happy. There's nothing I love more than watching some big guy, well in his 40s transfixed by this giant bubble in the sky. He follows it around."  Bubbles see no age, I suppose. I set the final film to a classical Chopin piece, and watched, fascinated by how natural Kishan's art complemented the music. I had a thought- maybe Kishan is beyond a bubble blower. He's a composer, Bethesda Fountain's own Mozart, waving his hands in the air and creating these physical notes that hit this part inside of us that we thought left us long ago: our innocence. He endures an ethereal symphony, and if you're lucky, you can hear his music. -Sarah

He's got the biggest heart of anyone I know." She will make you feel welcome, no matter who you are."
The Gentleman
Signs of spring in Central Park: 
1) Trees turn green
2) Flowers bloom
3) Blackwolf the Dragonmaster begins asking people to feed cash to his dragon.
Great parenting spotted in Central Park.
These two girls pulled a fast one on me, and ended up scheming their way into a HONY portrait. This morning I saw a wall post that said: It's free comic day at Midtown Comics in Times Square! There will be tons of people in costume! Last year there was even a guy in a Spiderman suit climbing up the side of a building!"
Excited by these mental images, I made my way to the comic book store. What do I find? A line of one hundred people all dressed in plain clothes. Not what I was expecting. Finally, at the end of the line, I found one girl wearing a costume. When I tapped her on the shoulder, she said: Oh my God! Humans of New York! You came!"
Well done, ladies. Well done. :) 
Mission Control
Meet Free. When I first moved to New York, Free lived in my building. He spent most of his time hanging out in the stairwell. I lived on the top floor, so I would always have to pass by him on the way upstairs. 
Free saw himself as King of the Stairwell, and always demanded tribute. He would only let you pass in silence if you stopped for a couple minutes and gave him some nice head scratches. If you did not stop, or only petted him for a few seconds, he would bark wildly when you passed by. 
I've long since moved, and it had been awhile since I'd seen Free. But I ran into him on the street yesterday. His owner told me that he's in bad health so he asked me to take a nice photograph. 
How'd your life change?"
You knowyour responsibilities widen. I'm a father now. Less time for fun."
One thing that's been really neat for me lately is seeing the diversity of people who have heard of HONY. Two months ago, it was almost all teens and college kids. Today it was this guy.
Two things run in this family: a love of purple, and a love of the thumbs up."
These two looked so storybook I literally laughed out loud when he told me he was a neurosurgeon.
Praying to the God of Nature
Today in Science News: A local genius has discovered that if you tie one hundred cute things together, you get ONE GIANT CUTE THING.
The man's an architect, the woman's a painter, and I'm going to go ahead and assume the baby's a model.
This one is really special, guys:
There is a Hilton Hotel on the corner of 42nd Street and 2nd Avenue. There you will find a doorman named Dennis. If you ask, Dennis will tell you the story of Bobby:
Bobby worked here for about 50 years.  Ten years ago he died of cancer.  But before he died, he said: "Dennis, I'm going to come back as a pigeon and I'm going to shit on you.'  A few years later, this white pigeon showed up and wouldn't leave. So we named him Bobby.  He's here everyday.  Remember that snowstorm last year that shut down the whole city?  Everybody told me Bobby wouldn't come, but when I got to workhis tracks were in the snow."
Dennis then pulled a picture of Bobby out of his wallet.  I started to photograph it, and he said: Let's do it by the flowersit will look nicer."
I was having a great day until I ran into this terrifying zombie from hell. 
I'm a math teacher" I wasn't expecting that." at the Fashion Institute of Technology. 
Inflation is out of control.

The Courtship
This woman kept me waiting for five minutes while she talked on her cell phone. Then she hung up, looked me in the eye, and said: There's nothing like closing a deal."
Where on that Vespa does she stow all the swagger?
When they crossed the street, he was carrying her dress for herjust like this.
Sometimes you can look at a puppy and know you're going to need a bigger backyard.
They're probably going to give you a hard time for those." I've been criticized for a lot more than my furs. 
This was so cool for me. Yesterday I had the honor of being photographed by master photographer Jill Enfield. She uses the same method that was used to take portraits of soldiers back in the civil war. The process is called Wet Collodion, and involves carrying around a portable darkroom. After the photo is taken, Jill instantly uses a special mix of chemicals to develop the photo on a piece of glass. 

Recently she's used this method in a series called The New Immigrants, where she takes portraits of recent immigrants to the United States. She explains: Using this method to document recent immigrants helps to show that they are no less brave than those who came over on boats 150 years ago."

Check out this short, time-lapse video of Jill in action:
These three girls were dancing down the sidewalk in the Hasidic section of Williamsburg.
Everyone looks different, but pride always looks the same.
You caught us coming from a birthday partyor else we'd be in our Levi's!"
So the story behind this photo is pretty hilarious: FIRST, I get this letter: Dear HONY,  My friend and I are obsessed with the guy who works the late-night shift at the Donut Pub (located at 203 W 14th St Cross streets=7th and 14th). He works starting at 11:30pm every single night. The guy remembered my name after not seeing me for monthsI had only been there once before. He is a real character and has the best smile you'll ever see. You'll know who I'm taking about when you see him! -Margaret  So last night my girlfriend and I make a pilgrimage to find this man. After an hour's travel, we arrive at the Donut Pub. When we walk in the door, there are two men working- one behind the counter, one in the back room. My girlfriend tugs on my arm, points to the man in the back room, and says: That's him! I just saw him smile. That's him!"   We explain to the man behind the counter that we want to photograph the man in the back room. He says it is not allowed. We are very persistent. He is very reluctant saying we'll have to come back when the manager is there.  Things turn a little chilly. Awkward and chilly.  Eventually he is convinced to go to the back room and tell the man that we want his picture. He comes back and says, He doesn't want his picture taken."   Finally we pull up the letter on a smart phone, and show it to the man behind the counter. Will you at least read it to him?"  I ask. The man behind the counter reads the letter. Suddenly he starts to smile. Then he starts to blush. The whole time he'd been the man we were supposed to photograph.  I was so confused,"  he explained, the man in the back never interacts with customers. I had no idea why you wanted to take his photo. Plus he's not much of a smiler."  THEN, just when things couldn't get any nuttier, the person who wrote the letter walks in the front door.
Manhattan overrun by demonic vampire rabbits.
Dear HONY, On the corner of 94th street and Park Avenue, right by Hunter College High School, there’s a man who has been running a halal food cart for the last three years. I’d say he’s really popular—students and teachers alike go to his cart at the beginning of their free periods to get some chicken over rice, or a hotdog or two, or a gyro. He’s known by everyone as the Halal Cart Guy, but to many of us it’s a title worth respecting. After all, it’s not only his food that we’ve come to know and love, but the man himself. He cheerfully greets his customers—students and teachers both—and asks what they’d like. He knows the orders of his regular customers and before they could say a word he’s already preparing their meal. What’s really great about this guy is that he isn’t doing anything incredible to get what respect he does from our school; he’s just preparing food, delicious food, no doubt, but it’s just his job. Even so, he isn’t the kind of person you see every day. We have plenty of places to eat around school, but no one serves us our lunch quite like him. -Mashi
Everyone's gonna love you."
You think so?"
Absolutely."
Why's that?"
You've got aura."
You think so?"
Absolutely."
My two favorite protestors from yesterday's rally.
Bruce Springsteen wrote a lot of songs about this man.
Tough Guys
I'm the King of America!"
Do you mind if we cross the street so I can take your photo?"
Sure.  But let's wait a sec.  I don't jaywalk."
The city continues to make deep cuts in its Waste Management budget.

UPDATE:
My mother's ashes are in there."
Oh wow.  Tell me something about her."
She was an amazing poet."
Was she a poet by profession?  Or was it just a hobby?"
A hobby. She wouldn't let anyone read her poems, actually. We knew she was writing them but she wouldn't let anyone read them.  I found them on her computer after she died.  They were so beautiful, I couldn't believe she wrote them."
We're on the front page of the WSJ New York section! Rumor has it the story originated with an editor's teenage daughter. #HONY2012 #FromTheGroundUp
WSJ.com has a tricky paywall, but allow me to nudge you in the right direction:

Awesome outfit, but it could use a necklace.
Dear HONY,There's an older gentleman that lives on the corner of Lewis Ave and Jefferson St, in Bedford-Stuyvesant. I walk past him everyday on my way to and from the train, and every single time he makes a point of asking me and anyone else passing how they are. I think he would be an incredible addition to your HoNY blog, and I'm sure you wouldn't have very much trouble finding himhe's out on his stoop, rain or shine, nearly every day!-Brigid
This man passed by me on Jefferson Street. I gave him a weak, tight-lipped smilenothing special.
He put his hand over his heart, bowed, and said: Bless you."
Made me wish I'd smiled bigger.
Seen in Union Square
Dear HONY,
I wanted to contact you about a Human of New York who passed away this weekend. Aidan Seeger was a 7 year old Brooklyn boy, son of Bobby and Elisa Seeger, who own Indian Larry Motorcycles in Brooklyn. Aidan suffered from a rare degenerative brain disease called ALD. Mostly this blue eyed boy represented what is best about New York. His childhood was filled with Coney Island, LB pizza, trips to Prospect Park to feed the ducks, and Italian ices at Uncle Luigi's.He walked around Brooklyn with all the confidence of a grown man, he charmed strangers and was called the RULER because he ruled NY. He will be greatly missed.
Thank you for your time,Gina
May be going dangerously far out on a limb herebut anyone else seeing a young Dennis Hopper? If not, just appreciate the glitter helmet.
I used to model when I was younger. Right now I'm not doing too good. Not homeless. Just not doing too good. 
NYC icon Joe Mangrum poses in front of another epic sand painting. Talk about dedication to art. Joe is out on the streets creating these things everyday. Every night they are destroyed, and the next morning he starts again anew. 

For this one,"  he explains, I was channeling Dr. Zoidberg from Futurama."
My story?  Well I style hair, I'm a go-go dancer, I used to be a lady, things like that."
I photograph a lot of different personalities, ranging from timid to this.
I had this thought yesterdayabout what makes humans different from animals. Humans have the choice to not engage in warfare. Animals don't. Isn't that wonderful to think about?"
Swaggalator
Because it's her birthday and she can wear what she wants to.
Five seconds later, skepticism turned into crying.
I design costumes."
What's the coolest costume you've ever designed?"
Has to be the break dancing polar bear."
Little man on the left refused to move toward the portrait, so the portrait moved toward him.
Nah, they don't have names. I just thought if people saw Winnie the Pooh, they'd be a little less likely to yell at us in traffic."
We're trying to raise money for the New Jersey Navigators it's a Track and Field team for disabled athletes." How'd you get involved with the team?" You know I went out searching for things he could do."

UPDATE: Make donations to:
This is how a hunter looks when he's posing with a trophy deer.
He never said a word, so he'll forever remain
The Most Mysterious Man In The World.
Grab a mop because your heart's about to melt.
I'm going to let you take my photo because you seem like a genuine person. Butjust so you knowI don't normally let people steal my swag."

You've got the uniformyou may as well use it.
Good parenting spotted in McCarren Park.
Article on Los Humanos de Nueva York in El Diario today.
The only three English phrases in the article are: peanut butter,"  Theodore Roosevelt,"  and What the hell's going on over there?"

When you reach a certain level of enlightenment, you can wear socks with sandals.
Sometimes there's a grey area.
They go through 30 lbs of food per week."
Just watching the broads go by. 
Hey there, ladies. 
Susie The Dogholding the whole neighborhood together. 
Not quite ready to let go of spring.
There was a bit of a language barrier, but from what I gathered, she is part of a volunteer dance troop that performs for hospital patients. 
New York, NY
Self-Portrait

I think I just felt jealous of a dog.
TREND ALERT: Industry sources tell me that bag hats are poised to dominate the runways next fall. 
Keeping Dry 
Ent spotted in Washington Square Park.
Only one jacket had the confidence to volunteer for the job.
At the end of a street in Brooklyn, I discovered a castle. 
By the door there was a rope, with a sign that said Pull.  So I did.
This man came out, and explained his mathematical theory of the universe.
Keeping the thrill alive.
Epic use of scarf.
I'm a special victims prosecutor." What does that mean?" I represent children, the elderly, and rape victims."
There is often a quiet person behind a loud persona.
The painter heard me laughing and, without looking down, said Boogie's looking at you sideways, isn't he?"
And to think he wanted a son.
I used to go through different stages. But then I found that I was happiest when I was green, so I've been green for 15 years."
This man was sitting next to me on the subway today, asking me very technical questions about my camera. 
I said: You seem to know more about my camera than I do."
He made this face, and said: Well, I did invent the world's largest x-ray focusing telescope when scientists around the world were claiming it could not be done."
I guess, but I'm not very photogenic."
I'm an artist." Did you make your amulet?" No, this is where I keep my prayers."
This guy works at Outpost coffee shop in Clinton Hill. Every time I walk by he is doing some combination of:1) Smiling2) Hugging Someone3) Looking Awesome
Last night, I finally had my camera with me when I saw him. 
I want to be an actor. I've got all these crazy characters and personalities I can do. 
This woman was hilarious. I was interviewing an old man across from her, but she kept piping in with her own answers. She did this three or four times. At one point I asked the old man: What was the happiest day of your life?"  Before he could answer, the woman shouted out: When I got divorced! Definitely the day I got divorced."
I finally stopped fighting the situation. I turned around, and said: You win. I'm going to take your photo."
She said: Oh! Should I leave my jacket on or are we doing it sexy? 
Then she took her jacket off. 
Let's start this day off right.
And by right I mean BABY. 
After his dad told him that I wanted to take a photo of his cape, this little guy made a game out of never letting me see his back. Unfortunately for him, I had more patience than he did.
Never would have made it in the Hunger Games.
Saw a woman across the street holding a giant Dora the Explorer doll.
When I asked her where she got it, she told me the man in the purple jacket had given it to her as a gift for her granddaughter.
When I asked the man where the doll came from, he said:  The trash, but all she needs is a quick trip to the salon.
So if you were to sell yoga in just a couple of sentences, what would you say?" www.togetheryoga.net" No, no, no yoga in general." Oh well yoga saved my life. It really did. Before yoga I was overweight, addicted to drugs, and on the wrong path. I rebuilt myself with yoga."
One advantage of having kids
On October 31, 2011 a girl was dangling off the edge of the GW bridge. Several cop cars showed up a few minutes later after several 911 calls. Asked what she was doing, she said: Enjoying life."  Strangely poetic that one person's enjoyment of life can appear to so many as a desire for death.
Always bringing ladies back to the crib.
It takes growing old to understand our parents like we did when we were really young.
:

Here’s a contact sheet of the roll of film mostly from today of older women who let me take their photo when I asked…I probably can’t use most of them, but it looks like a good start considering I need to take and then print 16 images by May 10th…
My inspiration:  and I’m Still Here from Follies

Many of you have been asking us how to go about taking street portraits and approaching people, but have admitted to being a little bit hesitant.  Here is a follower who, after having a brief back-and-forth with us, decided to just go for itand we're so happy that he did!
(UPDATE: http://tmblr.co/ZnloGxKPOtu7)

For any of you who have the same questions or concerns, try reading through this:

Apparently only one of them was excited about being on HONY.
Manhattan has earth and Brooklyn has glass,but Manhattan's beauty is glassier, and Brooklyn's is earthier.

May have been the shortest interaction I've ever had. He was idling at a red light on his Vespa. As soon as I got set, the light turned green. I got one shot of him before he sped off into the ether. The only thing he said was: I'm from Belgium. I have restaurants."
I do airbrush body art. Want a card?" Whoa! Hold those up! 
Two things about this man:

1) He had this very endearing quirk where he always had to be holding something in the air. The first time I tried to take his photo, he held up a bag of chips. When I convinced him to let me hold the chips, he pulled out an umbrella and held it up instead.

2) He was perhaps the most stylish homeless man I've ever encountered. Whether or not you agree with the look,"  I honestly would not be surprised to see a dry-cleaned version of that outfit on a fashionista in SoHo.
Why are you photographing homeless people?" I'm not. I'm photographing friendship."
The Intersection


Not every story has a happy ending.
 
The English Royal Marines Field Hockey team was in town this week for a tournament. They appeared to have just finished a shopping trip when I found them in Central Park. All of them were carrying Hollister bags with half-naked male models printed on them. There was a mad scramble to hide those bags before the photo was taken.
These two were going down the sidewalk, just like this.
One thing I love about New York is that you pass by all these people with ultra-modern clothing and haircuts, then turn the corner and see someone who looks like he just stepped out of the Ancient World.
Today I walked up on Wendell doing this to the Union Square Gandhi statue.
Dear HONY,
Dipika started a chapter of FACE AIDS, an global youth movement that raises HIV/AIDS awareness and fundraises for health care in rural Rwanda. She is a 20 year old young woman who really believes in the goodness and beauty of the world around her and, whenever she can, she tries to inspire others to understand the beauty of humanity and focus on our similarities, not our differences. She aspires to become a physician who can spread the message of social justice and equal treatment of all individuals. My daughter - a student, an activist, and a passionate believer - would be a great addition to your page. 
-Suman
Know someone who needs to be on HONY?Tell us their story in 250 words or less: honystories@gmail.com
Looks like we lost a mom a couple of blocks back
One of my favorite responses to date:
What's in the case?" Secrets."
UPDATE: THIS MAN HAS SOLD HIS OWN FECES FOR $500,000: 
He makes an awesome portrait.  But you know what I remember most about him?  When I tapped him on the shoulder, and said Excuse me,"  he answered: Yes sir?"
His shirt says: Be My Queen."
 
All HONY decisions come down from the throne. 
An American journalist and Italian artist, leaving the Keith Haring exhibit at the Brooklyn Museum.
The Entertainer
When it's raining, it's cold, wet, and a lot of people say no."  But a good portrait is like a cup of coffee by the fire.
This guy was huge, mohawked, and tatoooed.A real intimidating character then he smiled.
Some of you have been asking how to get on HONY
The tumblr has been growing beautifully over the past week.
This is just a thanks for spreading the word.
Another oldie, from last October:
Hands down the most adorable solution to the economic crisis: Tax the Princesses
I was just recycling some memory cards and I came across the first street portrait"  that I ever took.  It was taken on a subway in Chicago.  These two kids did not know each other, but were looking up with the same expression on their faces.  This was number one of several thousand. I remember being really nervous that I'd get caught."
Just walked by the Etan Patz investigation in SoHo. It seemed sort of poetic that our government is shutting down an entire block of the world's trendiest shopping district  to search for a child lost over 30 years ago. Seemed an illustration of America's regard for human life. Then I thought about the wars  past, present, and future. There are no easy answers in this world.
If you had to give the same piece of advice to every person, what would it be?" Find something that de-stresses you, and do it all the time." **Photographer's note: This advice could land you in rehab. Also, would love to hear other people's answer to that question in the comment section.
 
DoNY?!?!?!
I'm going to quote a commenter from a previous HONY photo:

When you carry around a camera, the world really hams it up."
I would never even consider dating somebody who doesn't follow Humans of New York." *


*These may not have been his exact words, the traffic was loud.
That mustache is so sikh.
Dear HONY,You should come to the Sikh day parade in the city on Saturday!! It's actually to celebrate our independence, you'll see a lot of new things from our holy book (Guru Granth), plus a lot of different colors and outfits. Free Indian Food!!!-Sharan
I found this man on 7th Avenue in Park Slope. He was leaning heavily on his cane, looking down, wearing a grimaced face. I felt bad for him, so I smiled and waved when I walked past. His face changed completely. He lit up, smiled wide, and gave me a cheery greeting. There was nothing forced about it. He seemed like a man who went through life looking for the smallest excuses to be happy.I walked 50 feet down the sidewalk, turned around, and walked back to him. I want to take your photo,"  I told him, because of how big you smiled when I walked by." He said: Well I saw someone smiling at me who I didn't even know. So I thought: "By God! I Better do something!'"
This guy had a notebook lying next to him. I pointed at it, and asked: Is that a song you wrote?" No,"  he said, it's the lyrics to Lauryn Hill's "The Sweetest Thing." Are you learning it for a girl?" ()() yeah."
I love myself!"

Seen in Park Slope.
The Flower Storm
What's your favorite thing about Spring in New York?
What's your favorite thing about her?" She's sensitive. I always say she's like a flower, you have to be delicate because she's easily ruffled." What's your favorite thing about him?" He doesn't take "no' for an answer."
 
It's Friday!!!!
Clearly her love is electrifying.
I can't stop looking at her.
Ka-ching!
He laughs in his sleep."
Goooood Morning, everyone.
This woman was walking with a large family. Her companions didn't notice that I'd stopped her, and just kept walking. When she realized I wanted her photo, she whistled loudly at them, like: Hey! I'm having a moment back here!"


Bad news, everyone. I ran into HONY regular Twink the Puppy today, and he's feeling pretty down due to a broken leg.
I'm a borough manager at the Department of Education." Oh yeah? What do you enjoy most about your job?" Hmmm." Ut oh. Do you regret your choices?" No, no, not at all. I'd say I enjoy helping families navigate the confusion of bureaucracy."
This is a follow-up to the last post. I was in line at the City Clerk's Marriage Bureau, waiting for Brandon and Melody to register, when I spotted these two. They were from Dallas, but had decided to marry in New York. When I asked for their photograph, they told me they needed a witness for their marriage. So my name is actually on their marriage certificate.
Dear HONY,My fiancé and I are getting married tomorrow at City Hall. She is five months pregnant and beautiful. My mom and dad will be the only ones in attendance. I think a group shot of us would be amazing for your site and amazing for us. Let me know if this is possible. I know what you do and I'm not expecting anything above and beyond, just your standard street portrait.-Brandon Sherman
 

I was assured by laughing onlookers that Little Man was not throwing up a gang sign, but rather: Doing a Spider Man thing."
 
The Process

I've spent several minutes trying to decide which face is the best. It's not possible.
‎Now for the million dollar question.What's that?" Did you break the foot while riding the unicycle?" No, I didn't." OH MAN, I thought I was going to have a great caption." Well, there is good news." What's that?" I broke it playing Quidditch."
I'm the dean of a middle school." Uh oh. You might hear about this photo before you see it."
Lorenzo: HandymanYelp Rating: 4.5 out of 5 Stars
What's your favorite thing about your wife?" I can't say that in public!"
The city that never sleeps in beds.
Home of the Brave
Teamwork
 
The entire argument was in Spanish. Based on the heat of the exchange, and the subsequent ejections, I thought for sure someone's mother had been called a whore. Turns out it was about a bad call at first."
What newspaper are you with again?" Humans of New York."
Ever wonder what Barbara Walter's chauffeur looks like?Me neither but here he is.
These two shots were taken one month apart.Now that's dedication.
Inspired By Nature
The Scream
Sleeping Beauty
 
Look at this Heart Melter I found on Lexington Ave.
I'm actually wearing my boxers in public as part of a study on the psychological effects* of violating social norms."


*I'm not a scientist, but it seems to me that the psychological effect of violating social norms is greatly diminished when you have zero percent body fat.

 spreads love and happiness on a Bronx-bound 6 train.
 
Hello, ladies.
Are you married?" we're practicing."
Quite A Shot
Hoop Dreams
I run a blog called Humans of New York." Well I don't blog."
Pelham Bay Park, The Bronx
Due to my propensity to ask people to pose in the street, I just had the unique experience of being yelled at by Alec Baldwin's mother (left). Which, incidentally, gave me a really interesting glimpse into the life of Alec Baldwin.UPDATE: This is Elaine Stritch, Broadway legend, who PLAYS Alec Baldwin's mother. On 30 Rock.
Is that a quote you'll stand in front of?" Absolutely."
There are a million blogs out there but only one that you can trust to sniff out the hot new trends that will be dominating the runways next fall.
The New York Couple
Imagine my excitement when I saw these two coming down the street.
There was a man standing next to this. I won't recount our entire conversation, but here's a portion of it:Please." No." C'mon, please." No." Please." No."
They looked like puzzle pieces.
I asked what their favorite thing about each other was, and they said: You can make it up."  So here goes:I love how he clips out my horoscope and tapes it to my coffee cup every morning." I love how she always helps me pick out the perfect tie."
Meet the man who figured out how to make Bart Simpson part of a respectable wardrobe.
Sometimes the best shot comes after the portrait is finished.
I said: Can I take your photo?" He nodded yes.I said: Have you heard of Humans of New York?" He nodded yes.I said: Awesome! Do you like the site?" He nodded yes.Then his parents tapped me on the shoulder, and in a thick accent said: He can't understand you."
Humans of New York just passed 50,000 likes on Facebook! It's been quite a journey. To put things in perspective: when we first started, it took over a year of hard work for HONY to gain the amount of followers that it's now putting on every single day! Thanks for spreading the word everyone.
If you enjoy HONY, please reblog this image to share us with your friends and add us on facebook!  We appreciate all of your support! 
A kid wore shorts to school yesterday and the headmaster got really mad, so today the whole class wore them."
I like your bear." He's not mine! He belongs to the whole class!"
Tell me something about yourself." What do you want to know?" I don't know what's the happiest you've ever been?" Probably that time I had three women in the bed."
A little lower,a little lower,a little lower."
Oh, I love being photographed!"
 
Is there anything you want to say?" Nah, I got nothing to say. I used to talk a lot. Not anymore. I just go with the flow. More talking, more bullshit."
Do you mind if I take your photo?" What?" Do you mind if I take your photo?" What?"

Be somebody you'd want to be.
It's not easy being Justin Bieber.
Unfortunately, a truce was called as soon as I walked up. So despite it's realism, this is merely a reenactment of the vicious battle.

No telling how many chicks he's picked up with that thing.
 
My ultimate goal is to reach a certain level of adulthood where I can afford to be a child."
 
Nature or Nurture
You want a balloon sculpture?" Can you spell out H-O-N-Y?" I don't know man I'm not sure I could do that. I'm a juggler, mainly. How about a cool hat instead?"
These guys were default league champions because all the other teams forfeited out of fear.
A holiday message from one of New York's finest, and I quote: Lady Gaga! Happy Easter! Lady Gaga!"
 
I love that there are cultures where a father and son can walk arm-in-arm without a hint of self-consciousness.
I really don't have time to talk, these shadows are changing every second."
Not sure if this is the best family portrait I've ever taken, but it may have made me smile biggest.
What is seen cannot be unseen.
 
Holi is a Hindu festival celebrating the arrival of spring. But more importantly for me, it involves people throwing colored powder at each other.
Don't be deceived by their smiles. They actually hunted and skinned those leopards themselves.

She didn't mind getting her clothes a little dirty.
So where are you from originally?" Staten Island."
 
Even the smoothie was black.
Parrots are very high-maintenance. They mate for life, so they require a lot of attention. When you own a parrot, you are like its mate. The whole reason they learn English is because they want to connect with you so badly."
 
Mom was probably the biggest HONY fan I've ever stopped. Hell, all three of us almost started crying on the sidewalk.
Saw a crowd of about 40 people gathered in a tight circle in Washington Square Park. Pushed my way to the middle and saw this.
97 year old Irwin Corey spends all day panhandling on 35th Street between 2nd and 3rd Avenue. He uses all the money to buy medical supplies for Cuban children. A HONY fan sent me on a mission to find him after reading this article about him in the NY Times: ()
You can dress em' up, but you can't take em' anywhere.
 
American Kids
I got a dishonorable discharge. I've been trying to clear it up for 50 years. They said they'd pay to bury me, but they won't put a flag on my fucking grave." What happened?" Well it was Christmas time, and they let us come home from Vietnam for two weeks, and I never received the official orders, and (.) , and on top of that (), not to mention ()" So wait. You never went back?" No." Why?" Cause I was nineteen. And I was scared."
 

Dress To Win
Travelling Buddies
I very rarely take indoor photos. But I was grabbing a juice at Melvin's Juice Box in SoHo, a thriving business with several employees. But who do I see mopping the floor? Melvin himself. When I asked for his photo, he refused to be photographed without another employee. 
She's on fire.
You can always find natural beauty at the gardens.
In the HONY dictionary, there are two definitions for the word champion:" 1) One who wears his own face on a shirt2) One who wears a viking hat
Meet Charlie Buttons."  I discovered him while he was grilling on the patio of the Lincoln Center Synagogue. His companions described him as a fixture."  After I photographed him, he handed me a small sheet of paper, with the following words typed on it:Charles was hired, trained, and fired by the United States Postal Service on three separate occasions" This opening statement was then followed by a controversial political declaration that, well, you're just going to have to ask Charlie about.
 
Great news everyone. For the second time in a week, the Universe has conspired to bring me into the path of Twink the Puppy. This time he was accompanied by his friend Pearl and two humans. This pose is a direct result of me shouting: More Twink! We need more Twink!"
Ladies and Gentlemen: New York City
 
You know it's going to be a good day when you step off the subway and see this.
Someone's face got occupied at today's rally.
Another bombshell piece of investigative journalism from Humans of New York:What are those balloons for?" A birthday party."
 
I cannot tell you guys how long I have searched for this man.
My story? Well I'm 90 years old and I ride this thing around everywhere. I don't see why more people don't use them. I carry my cane in the basket, I get all my shopping done, I can go everywhere. I've never hit anyone and never been hit. Of course, I ride on the sidewalk, which I don't think I'm supposed to do, but still"
This was fun. Stumbled across an early Easter egg hunt yesterday in Central Park. Wanted to photograph this little girl, but she was having none of it. She turned her back and ran in the other direction. Mom and Dad tried shouting her name but no luck. She wouldn't turn around. Then Dad took a plastic egg out of his pocket, held it in the air, and yelled: Oh my gosh, I just found an egg!"
Wolverine and Wonder Dog have long since retired from crimefighting.
Many of my best portraits are preceded by the thought:What the hell is going on over there?"
OK. So maybe everyone wasn't quite ready for the photo
When it rains in New York, the flowers come out.
 
So tell me something about yourself." Well, I've really got to get to lunch soon, but" Well just tell me the happiest you've ever been." Probably when I met my dear husband, and you know, we were congenial toward each other, and we eventually we got married." Well, what's the saddest you've ever been?" Well, I've always taken sadness into account as a part of life. Even when I lost my dear husband, you know, I viewed it as a process of time."
So tell me something about yourself." Well, I've really got to get to lunch soon, but" Well just tell me the happiest you've ever been." Probably when I met my dear husband, and you know, we were congenial toward each other, and we eventually we got married." Well, what's the saddest you've ever been?" Well, I've always taken sadness into account as a part of life. Even when I lost my dear husband, you know, I viewed it as a process of time."

She's from Egypt. Which is fitting, because she looks like a perfect mix of desert and dance club.
What are you doing?"  "I'm teaching myself to read in color. What does that mean?"  I'm assigning every letter a color, and teaching myself to recognize them."  Why?"  I don't know."
I must warn you, I don't think I've ever posted a picture of an infant without the type of carrier being criticized in the comment section." Oh, don't worry. Part of being a mom is getting used to the fact that every other mom knows better than you do."
The Blues
Why?" Because you have a wonderful face."
 
Wonder if so many books are written about New York because so many people look like they belong in novels.
 

These guys don't need a bailout.
He was born on Saint Patrick's Day, and every year they throw him a parade!"
 
A man selling a single piece of art on a Williamsburg sidewalk. Seemed sort of poetic to me.
When I was taking this photo, someone walked behind me and said: God that is so Brooklyn."

Step on this.
 
When I eat at cafes, I try to get a table by the window. Just in case anyone walks by with a GIANT SUN MIRROR.
These gas prices are out of control.
Everyone's gonna love you." Everyone already loves us. We're the two most adorable ladies on the Upper East Side."
If you need any added romanticism, I can confirm that the novel was Russian.
 
I usually focus on the sidewalk I'm walking down, but every once in awhile someone will catch my attention from the other side of the street.
 

This man had the same last name as me.God I hope we're related.
Kinda sad that I'm 20 years older than this kid, and he looks better walking home from school than I've ever looked in my life.
 
I asked Elvis for a photo. He said: Do you have any cash? I said: No." A female voice behind me said: I do."
To cool things down a bit after that last post, here's a puppy named Twink.
One of the most bizarre situations I've ever encountered. I asked this beautiful young woman for her photo. I explained the blog, and she said sure."  Then the man next to her said: Absolutely not, we want a contract. She ignored him, and said to me: I want to do it."  I told her where to stand. The man barged into the photo, and said: She doesn't take a photo without me."  She said: Quit being a jerk."  He said: I don't care, you're not doing it." There's no gray area for me here, folks. I don't care about the context. I don't care about the dynamics of their relationship. I don't care about the correctness"  of the decision. A man does not have the right to overrule a woman's decision. Ever.
Pretty funny backstory to this one. When I walked up, three frat guys had managed to convince her that:1) They were Mexican2) She was racist
 
I am coming back to my law school for the first time in twenty years, and now I have my picture taken! Wait until I tell my husband."
What are you reading?" It's a philosophy book." Are you a philosophy student?" No."
Bigfoot could be anywhere.
Papa Smurf
Sister and Brother
Zack Morris spotted in SoHo.
Like mother, like daughter.
Don't think she was fully comfortable with the process, but her apprehensiveness came through beautifully
Paradoxically, the loudest personas often belong to the most soft-spoken people.
This girl made a game of dancing out of the frame every time I was ready to shoot.
Inappropriate touching in Central Park.(Warning: Graphic Content)
The flyest hoodie of them all.
 
All those guitar lessons finally paying off.
Somebody won the horse lottery.

Just passed 30,000 likes on Facebook! Thanks everyone! Appropriately, I just ran into one of NYC's most photogenic characters. If you enjoy HONY, please help spread the word by reblogging this image  joining us on Facebook.
 





Got a very professionally worded email a few months back from a fourteen year old girl named Ellen who claimed to be the youngest blogger in the fashion industry. She asked to be on the site. I told her that maybe we could meet when the weather gets warmer. She did not let me forget. Such a neat and ambitious young woman.
UPDATE: http://itsellestell.tumblr.com/




I am a street photographer in New York City. Several months ago, I was approached by a representative of  who asked to purchase 300 of my photos to hang in their store windows around the world."  They offered me $15,000. A friend in the industry told me that $50 per photo was not nearly enough to receive from a company with hundreds of millions of dollars of revenue. So I asked for more money. They said no." Today, a fan sent me a photo from a DKNY store in Bangkok. The window is full of my photos. These photos were used without my knowledge, and without compensation.I don't want any money. But please REBLOG this post if you think that DKNY should donate $100,000 on my behalf to the YMCA in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. That donation would sure help a lot of deserving kids go to summer camp. I'll let you guys know if it happens.
















There's only so much shit a man can take.










Silent Symphony
Sometimes they come preframed.
Baller

Why do you want to take my photo?"
You have a great face."
I look like God. Don't I? 
Dogs don't judge you.

Fall Collection
Something tells me that this one's going to have an early curfew when she's a teenager.
 
After I took this photo, I showed it to him: Oh man, he said. Nothing lasts forever."
Can I take your photo?" I didn't hear a thing you just said."


Behind the Scenes
November 1, 2011
Underneath it all, it's about one thing.
This creature tried to sneak by me when I was photographing the marathon. Nice try creature.
One of the strange poeticisms of life is that sometimes it takes another person to make you realize you were lonely.
Occupy Wall Street continues to splinter.

The first time I saw this man was in the subway. He walked into my subway car and shouted: ATTENTION EVERYONE."  He was selling vials of scented oil, which were strapped to his chest like machine gun cartridges. Ironically, the next time I saw him was at a Rally Against Islamophobia.
The City That Never Sleeps
Though the winners have already finished, the marathon's real heroes are just warming up.
I'm going to go out on a limb and say that this man has never participated in a drum circle.
 


This place gets so dead at night.
 
If this photo had audio, you would hear me saying: Oh. My. God."



I'm a seeker of everyday heroics.

This is Wall Street's fault.

The best part of my job is being able to bring joy to the faces of children.
Twinsies!
Sometimes I get a little overexcited after a great portrait, and force an awkward hug on the subject. I realize pretty soon that I'm hugging a non-hugger. But it's too late.
 
I don't believe in luck. I only believe in work."  -Pablo Picasso
Raphaelle is from Paris. Next spring she is getting her PHD in Philosophy from NYU. Her specific interest is crime, and the difference between revenge and punishment. But seriously intelligence is so attractive.
That's nothing, you should have seen the other guy.
 
Gun control laws are clearly not working. 
La petite danseuse.
 
Apparently Facebook won't let you show a woman's breasts.Unless they were painted by a man.

If you reblog this photo, an angel gets its wings.
It's very clear when Chinatown changes into Little Italy. The signs change from Chinese to Italian,and suddenly everyone loves to be photographed.
 
You look good." I look good cause I am good."
 
Do you mind if I take your photo?" We have to get some coffee." I'll wait."

New York is the meeting place of the peoples, the only city where you can hardly find a typical American."  -Dhuja Barnes
Street Fight in Chinatown: Can you find both Corona bottles?

Young Dracula
New York still has so much pizzazz, because people make it new every day. Like all cities, it’s self-organizing. People looking for a date on Third Avenue make it into a place full of hope and expectation, and this has nothing to do with architecture. Those are the emotions that draw us to cities, and they depend on things being a bit messy. The most perfectly designed place can’t compete."  -Jane Jacobs

This poster hangs in the window of a Laundromat near my apartment.It is not suggestive of a pleasant laundry experience.
There's no such thing as a relaxing ride home.
His mom was screaming: Put it down!" I was screaming: Hold it up!"
Can't leave your car for a minute in this city.
Nothing completes a wall of graffiti like a good sweater vest.
If you can't own a house in NYC,you can at least own the sidewalk.
Met Sam in Union Square Park tonight. He's 19. He loves dance, studies neuroscience, and wants to be a monk. He can also do awesome things with his glass orb.
Here's a Comic Con participant that I thought deserved a split-screen.
Went to Comic Con yesterday. It's a good thing to see, once.

If this picture looks like a giant robot man walking in the middle of the street, it's because there was a giant robot man walking in the middle of the street.
Brooklyn by way of Ethiopia.
If these two don't make you want to group hug,you just don't like group hugs.
Seizing on the energy of Occupy Wall Street, one protestor decides to launch a more personal movement.
Somebody told on our topless photo yesterday and Facebook removed the content, accompanied by a stern warning. I bet it was those bastards over at Humans of New Jersey.
China's covert propaganda campaign is not going as well as hoped.
Sometimes the best background is, well, the ground.
The world is full of people standing in perfect places.
Every movement has its philosophers.
Wendell is a clothing designer with a long history of crack addiction. He still puts together clothes with materials he finds in the trash. He's often very combative and will never let me take a decent portrait. But today he was strangely serene.
Recently classified as Extinct, the slow-moving Metallicus Eccentricus was recently seen crossing 5th Ave. This creature is highly endangered because it is completely blind and feeds only on attention. 
Neighborhood beautification begins in the mirror.
Suddenly the street sermon uncomfortably shifts to the subject of The White Man.
It's not hard to be ambiguous. But it's hard to be comfortably ambiguous.
Street Ball
Home is wherever I'm with you.
Some come to Occupy Wall Street for social justice.Others come for world peace.Still others, for epic squirrel portraits.
The Reading Lesson

Somehow a Wall Street banker managed to squeeze past the pitchfork perimeter. He headed straight for the beating heart of the protest  the Dorito supply.
I loved all her grays.
Love the unity here between art, artist, environment.
I used to work on Wall Street." Before or after the face tats?"
Another interesting creature from Occupy Wall Street.
She seemed worthy of a close-up.
Occupy Wall Street: gettin' weird.
Boy giving a close-up inspection of an exhibit at Greenpoint's Bring the Light"  exhibition.
All that peace and love will make you tense.
Life settles you down.

This guy has a bad reputation.
Playing with her hair.
Shotgun.
These men allowed me to take their photosThen thanked me ten times.


Being a horse really sucks.
It gets lonely out there.
Annnnd we've officially taken everything from the Native Americans.
 
The decision to allow a street portrait has much more to do with inner pride than outer appearance.
I have never felt the need to climb into the Washington Square Fountain.Until tonight.
Hat's off.



I can't eat at the Whole Foods cafeteria without being paralyzed by stage fright: If I mess up these people are going to think I'm a monster."


September 11, 2011
Shockingly, Olga wasn't interested in any post-photo conversation. Wait until she gets home and discovers that I'm a major player in the New York City non-fashion-oriented street portrait blogosphere. Boy is she going to feel stupid.

I don’t think there’s a person in New York that I wouldn’t choose to photograph if they were in a certain place at a certain time.
Spent a few hours at fashion week watching a parade of models in expensive clothes. I left with four photos that I liked: a pair of feet, a toddler with a pink umbrella, the NYPD bagpipe band, and this girl.

There was an NYPD 9/11 remembrance ceremony being held across the street from Fashion Week. When the ceremony ended, the police marched through Lincoln Center Plaza, and for ten minutes, everyone stopped paying attention to fashion.
Colors are becoming to anyone. Even a little puppy, when it has a coat on, is very nice. Now go get me a piece of pizza. I mean it. Go."
It's Fashion Week.
Seven words I love to hear: Hold on, let me get my parrot."

I remember the first time I saw the dance team of an all black marching band. I realized black people are very different from white people. And that these differences should be celebrated, not denied.
Thought it was indicative of the project that my favorite picture from the West Indian Parade came on the walk home.
Parades aren't for everyone.
The queen will see you now.
West Indian Children's Day Parade

Found this guy rocking an empty mic stand at a block party.
Jesse is constantly on the lookout for more flowers and christmas lights to add to his shopping cart. He enjoys laughing, drinking, and saying New Yorkers are Crazy."

Sorry he's so shy." Actually, I think he came through quite beautifully."
End of Ramadan! Time to Party.


Don't dress where you are.Dress where you want to go.
At the end of a street in Brooklyn, I randomly discovered a castle. By the door there was a rope, with a sign that said Pull."  So I did.This man came out, and explained his mathematical theory of the universe.
The hurricane came.America won.
Use feminine energy when approaching women, children, the elderly.Use masculine energy when approaching a Fuck Da Death"  chest tattoo.
Honey, we're going to take a photo real quick." But dad, my hair's wet!  
They grow up fast.
Didn't feel a thing.
Hurricane? Fuhgeddaboutit!
SoHo street artist, Optimo Primo
This man camps behind a grocery store in Greenwich Village, and would not let me take a picture until he loaded a Rolling Stones cassette into his walkman.
 
One nanosecond later, an unfortunate injury brings the photoshoot to a screeching halt.
May I take your daughter's photo?" You will have to ask my daughter that." I like that."
Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn
Was laughing pretty hard during this one. Her mom kept saying: Do it Brown Sugar! That's right! You a superstar!"
Judging by the level of excitement, this day will always be remembered at the loading dock as the day Larry made it on the internet."
Embarrassingly low attendance at tonight's Thriller flash mob in Washington Square Park.


There's a Banksy-style mural in a vacant lot surrounded by a huge chain link fence. I asked several guys to climb through a hole in the fence with me, before finally finding someone with the balls to do it.
Followed this umbrella for about 100 yards just to find out what was on the other side.
No pain, no gain.

After the photo, the crocodile wrestling resumed.
Most people think its weird that a stranger would want to take their picture. This girl thought it was the most natural thing in the world.

Is that your Rolls Royce?" No but I can pretend like I'm getting in."
Some guys have all the luck.
Why do you want my picture?" Cause I think you're beautiful." Oh I bet you do."
Fashion in a very unfashionable part of town. [Had to ask for her photo in the presence of six male friends. Not the easiest thing to do.]

Somebody's got to clean up these streets
All right, little man. Show me what you got."
Honestly better than some of the stuff I've seen at the Whitney.
You two look like you go together" We've gone together for 50 years."
Grey.

A redhead.
I've noticed that a lot of times people project their own feelings onto their pets. In this case: He's been really sad lately, we just lost his brother."
Forever young.
Had just finished photographing these two in Union Square, when they informed me that they were the first gay couple to get married in Canada.
One of my goals is to bring fashion photography's elegance, composition, and color coordination to everyday people in random environments.


Recent immigrants bring much of the Old World with them. In Roman's case, a four foot walking stick.
You have a WHAT in your bag?"
All I said was: May I take a picture of you and your son? Then this happened.
New York, NY

Think this is my new favorite Wall Street pic.


A horrible crime has been committed.


For a small donation, the World's Greatest Storyteller"  will tell you a story. Mine was called The Hustler's Convention.

This photo cost 2/3rds of a warm, blue gatorade.

Was deep in The Heights when I stopped a group of guys playing basketball to ask for a photo. They just stared at me. After a long awkward silence, one guy volunteered.
Do you want me to stand up?" Wait. What? Oh."
I basically just do a lot of walking and trust the street to produce moments."

Not the way to get a girlfriend.
These guys are actually a lot more approachable than the machine gun suggests. 
Street shot.
Every time I walk to Prospect Park I pass a dog sitting on a stoop.After some consideration, I decided it was the greatest dog in New York.Yesterday I learned that I wasn't alone in that opinion.
I had a field.I had a dream.These kids had a couple extra minutes, and an interpreter.
Self-Portrait. Bushwick, Brooklyn.
This is why socialism would never work.
When I first started reaching for my camera, tears were streaming down the little girl's face. I thought I was about to capture a classic. But I think all the attention cheered her up. Happy Father's Day!
Not everybody was into the parade.
Girls love bad boys.
I value some photographs because they look nice. I value others because they're tough to get.
Williamsburg is a place where many tides meet.
Hello, is there anyway I can take your photo? I run a site called humansofnewyork.com. I go to all the neighborhoods of New York and take photos of people who live and work in different areas." I didn't hear a word you just said."
You don't run into this sort of blatant irony very often.
Men used to channel their testosterone into hunting Mastodons. Now there is Wall Street.
There are several people who dress in full costume and pose in Central Park, allowing tourists to photograph them for a small donation. I normally pass, but this young woman was so enchanting that I could not resist.

Went to the World Trade Center site. Actually relieved that there was not a throng of humans celebrating a person's death. There were just a few loud performers, surrounded by onlookers and cameramen.
I’m from Belgium. I could try to sing at the opera houses in Europe. They are bigger, there are more of them, and they are less competitive. But honestly, I’m the kind of girl that likes a good battle.
Sometimes so much of this city can be summed up in a single picture.
Munchkins.
Some forward-looking fashion on the high line yesterday.
A provoking mix of The Jetsons and Sarah Palin's Alaska.
Remember the age when flirting usually took the form of an attack?
You're never going to be famous unless you start acting famous.
Perhaps I’m letting my imagination run away with me, but I feel like you have to go through a lot of unquiet to achieve this sort of quiet comfort with another person.
Wendell would you mind looking at the camera?" I'm not going to pose. Just take it naturally." If you say so."
This is Cristian Escalante. He was part of a large group of teenagers criss-crossing a skate park in Chelsea. Even though he was going by at about 20mph, I somehow managed to get his attention.
Springtime.

My wife’s name was Barbara, I used to call her Ba.My name was Lawrence, she used to call me La.When she died, I changed my name to Bala.
These gentleman are members of The Forbidden Ones, a Puerto Rican biker gang based in Bushwick, Brooklyn.
This is Ashley Cloud. She is very sweet. But every boy in class will tell you, she kicks very hard.
The kids printed their photos and pasted them into a photo album. At the end of class, they presented their album. Most of the kids showed photos that they took of other people. Patrick's album was a little different
This is Noah. He lives in Harlem. He's retired now, but he's looking to get into television and modeling.
Sometimes everything just comes together
My favorite things to photograph are children, pretty girls, gang members, and face tattoos. If I ever get all four of those things in one picture, I'm retiring.
You want me to do my rappin' shit? You can do whatever you want. All right, I'm gonna do my rappin' shit."
Stumbled upon the cast of the Lion King resting up before tonight's show.
Team from the Associated Press followed me around the East Village today. Went really well, we got some great shots and had some interesting interactions. I'll keep everyone updated on what comes of it.
I asked this man if I could take his photo.He said No." I said, All right, well you look good,"  then walked away.He chased me down and said: Where do you want me to stand?"
We wish to educate our people of their history before America, before Europe. Educate them about a time when they were rulers, not subordinates, so that they may be rulers again."
Well I was raised in the woods of Vermont, then moved about 5 times, each time to a more populated place, until I ended up here."


Happy Thursday, everyone.
Supposedly they are famous.
Not too big into fashion. But I love fashion week.
Sometimes Spring needs a kickstart.
Reporter from the Village Voice followed me around today. Did. not. mind. at. all.
Here's to doing it your own way, and doing it beautifully.
Why is that guy running into traffic with a camera? Is there a celebrity over there?" Well I don't have my glasses, but it looks like some kids. Kids with sleds."
Spent the last 10 days adding twitter followers, emailing blogs, making promotional videos, working on the website. Learning that trying to get people to notice your work is a surefire way to hate your work. Put in a good day of photographing on the Lower East Side. After so much time off, felt a strange sensation approaching my first few people. Holy crap, I'm nervous."  Settled down, got back into the groove. Met some neat folks. Felt good to remind myself that my favorite part of photographing people, is photographing people.

Been tending shop the last few days. Trying to get the website redesigned. Working on two short films related to the project. Consulting with my advisors. Begging my friends to like"  my facebook page whether they enjoy my photos or not. (Thanks guys) Trying to muster a NY-based twitter following out of thin air. 8 hours of hard labor later, I have 72 followers, 17 of which joined as a favor to Geno Atkins Jr. Realizing twitter is #justagame. Looking forward to photographing again, but in the meantime, here's a pic of Al Pacino.
Man asked me for money two days ago. I said no. He said thank you anyway. I said hold on one second, and gave him the change in my pocket. Yesterday I saw him again. Take my picture,"  he said. I took his picture. He kissed me on the cheek. I am Earl Flynn,"  he said. I am your grandfather."
Do you know who you are talking to? No sir. I am the greatest poet who ever lived. I wrote the poem Black Oath. Awesome. I'll look it up on the internet. Its not on the internet. Oh. Can you recite it? I'm too drunk."
Following a nasty fall a month ago, the internal components of my lens completely came apart today. So I can no longer zoom, there is a huge piece of metal rattling around inside, and everything is being held together by duct tape. But other than that we are still operational. This is the last photo before the collapse.
Today, I caused a commotion at the McDonald's in Jamaica, Queens. A kid asked me to take his photograph. When I started to, 20 of his friends started climbing over tables, trying to get in the picture. There was a lot of screaming. $1000 in cash was pulled out of a sock. The cops were called. Everyone in this picture was escorted out two minutes later.

























The photographic census of NYC. One street portrait at a time.
My name is Brandon and I began Humans of New York in the summer of 2010. HONY resulted from an idea that I had to construct a photographic census of New York City. I thought it would be really cool to create an exhaustive catalogue of the city’s inhabitants, so I set out to photograph 10,000 New Yorkers and plot their photos on a map. I worked for several months with this goal in mind. But somewhere along the way, HONY began to take on a much different character. I started collecting quotes and short stories from the people I met, and began including these snippets alongside the photographs. Taken together, these portraits and captions became the subject of a vibrant blog, which over the past two years has gained hundreds of thousands of followers. With over 300,000 collective followers on Facebook and Tumblr, HONY provides a worldwide audience with daily glimpses into the lives of strangers in New York City.
